Been looking to try this for a while.. See what the hype is about. 2 cl from whisky base.

Sample isn't big enough to get more but delightful.. Not as good as expected considering the hype.



Think the general consensus is that this is as good if not better than the A'bunadh. I think it's average score on /r/scotch is higher as well >90.

I was expecting something as good as the A'bunadhs that I love, and it completely failed to meet that expectation.



I was wondering if most of hte reviews on here were from the US.. When the NCF was first sold in the UK it was exclusive to one shop, now every shop can distribute it, I wonder if the "recipe" has changed as it's been introduced to more markets?

(or something like that, I'm spitballing here)



See what you think, maybe it was my sample.

I was hoping it was the A'bunadh, but at a low enough abv I can drink it more often. 



Aberlour 12 Year NCF ? 48%, $50 

Nose: Strong sweet sherry, plums, candied citrus, light malt, light leather, oak, dark honey.  

Taste: Strong sweet caramel, dates, oak spice, toasted malt, lightly meaty, light leather, lightly creamy. Medium mouthfeel.  

Finish: Oak spice and sweetness linger, malt asserts itself more, the citrus comes very near the end with a hint of red hots candy. Medium length.  

Notes: This was a very spice forward expression and almost a total sherry bomb but the malt comes back towards the end. This was very nice overall. 

83/100



That's actually a good point, I didn't think to check the prices for each before posting this.

I can only check online right now (maybe I'll call later), but Binny's in Chicago lists the A'bunadh for $80. The 12 CF is $50, so I'd guess the 12 NCF is somewhere in that range. I don't think it'd be the full $80 but I could be wrong.



The A'bunadh is $80 and the 12 NCF is $68 in my neck of the woods (Colorado).

I found the 12 NCF to be really enjoyable and tasted like A'bunadh's little brother.



Initial Impressions: Speyside apples.  I was hoping the randomization would deliver an Islay, but now that you mention it this is good too.

Nose: sherry, straw, malt, earth, butter cream, libraries.  Lost the apples.

Taste: lightly sugared apple cinnamon raisin malt pastry thing.  With a side of sherry.  Some spice - more and more black pepper as we progress.  

Finish: sherry, not overbearing but decidedly so.  A bit of burn in the throat after the fact.  Firecracker aftertaste.  

Reminds me a lot of the Glenlivet Guardian's Chapter, which I once upon a time liked a lot more than I do today.  If there ever comes a time that I'm off my "I don't really like sherry" high horse, I'll reget this score, but hey, it's scotch.

Score: 80/100

Would I buy it again? doubtful, though if my tastes change this would be high on a "I want sherried scotch" buy list.



They're different beasts. A'bunadh is typically $20-25 more and has about 10-12% higher ABV. A'bunadh is younger and more brash; a true sherry bomb.

12 NCF is a great easy-sipper with nice flavors of sherry, fruit and oak. A'bunadh is hot, spicy, and has a punch of sherry and fruit. 

Both offer similar performance/price, in my opinion. You drink them for different reasons, though.



I actually prefer this, I think it's a lot more complex than /u/Imaslapyou is giving it credit for.

A'bunadh is great too, honestly they're generally very similar, the a'bunadh is just all about the abv and the punchier notes. 



I'd be tempted to attribute the 'firecracker' aftertaste to the age of the sample, I've never picked up that note from my bottle. 

though it could also be down the different batches. 



The 12 NCF is the real anchor for their age statement range.

Amongst enthusiasts, sure. I don't know that a lot of mainstream scotch drinkers, who comprise the majority of the purchasing base, would know about it.



Aberlour 12 NCF

Strength: 48%

Color: Orange-brown. 

Nose: Fruity and sweet, like jam or berry frosting. Apple cider. 

Palate: Sweet raisins, plums, and spice. Such a classic sherry-finished whisky taste. It has the vibrant fruit, rich oak, and decadent spice that I love so very much in my Speyside scotches. 

Finish: This guy coats the tongue nicely, showing off the oils that Aberlour makes a point of not removing. Chocolate mousse. Fruit gives way to tannic oak. 

Summary: This is a damn fine whisky, and a great one to get early on into exploring scotch. I don't think it brings anything new or unheard of to the table, but it executes the well established sherried Speyside style flawlessly. 

Score: 90/100 

Scotch Review #28

Whisky Review #35

Related Reviews:

Aberlour 16

Aberlour 18

Aberlour A'bunadh



Greetings Scotchit! Today I'm reviewing another one of the bottles that I recently bought. I felt like a sherried whisky today, so I went with a perennial favourite of Scotchit: Aberlour 12 NCF. 

Apparently this is still double matured like the regular 12 Double Cask, though I was lead to believe that it was matured exclusively in sherry casks. Regardless, /u/texacer loves it, will I?

Aberlour 12 Non Chill Filtered
Speyside, 48% ABV, NCF, no E150?, ?37.50/700ml 

Nose: Rich Oloroso sherry. Strawberries. Spicy cloves and cinnamon. Caramel and red apples. Plums and raisins. Later: Brown sugar and syrup. Canned peaches and a hint of malt. With water: Less spices, more red apple.

Very sherried, no doubt about it. It's very spicy, as well, with lots of dark spices and dark fruits. It's a pretty damn good sherried nose, but clearly more Oloroso than PX, where I think the GlenDronach CS I have leans more towards PX sweetness. Over time, it sweetens and becomes fruitier. Water sweetens it even more, muting the spices and bringing out more red apples.

Taste: Full bodied. Immediate alcohol bite. Spicy cinnamon and nutmeg. Lots of Oloroso sherry. White pepper. Raisins and sultanas. Mildly bitter toasted oak tannins. Later: Raspberries and peaches. With water: Strawberries! Less spices. Worse mouthfeel. =(

Spicy, and not quite as sweet as the nose would suggest. Big, big bruiser of a whisky, with peppery notes and a hint of bitterness in the background, but not enough to really bother me. Over time, some of that bitterness and spiciness dies down and gives way to more fruity notes. Water kills the spices almost entirely and brings the fruits to the foreground, especially strawberries. Kind of kills the mouthfeel though.

Finish: A bit short. Sherry, obviously. Mild oaky bitterness. Cardamom and cinnamon. Sultanas. White pepper. Slight berries (blackcurrant?).

Actually surprisingly short finish, can't claim I'm not a little disappointed by it. It's pretty good, though, and warms your throat instead of burning your tongue, which is nice for a change since I've been drinking a large amount of younger whiskies lately. 

Summary: Sherry! Lots of sherry. It's nice, I can't really fault that. It's also a tad too spicy in my opinion - I'd appreciate more fruits without having to water it down and ruin the mouthfeel. I'd say this is on par with a rye whiskey, where more standard sherried Scotches tend to be like bourbon. This is more aggressive, spicier and with less sweetness. 

That said, it is good, and water smooths it out quite a bit. And for the price, this is an excellent dram (+1 points). I may have put a tad too much water in this, because it tends to be the last thing I do, which messes up the proportions. It's something I'll experiment with in the future, adding just individual drops of water. I should get a pipette. That said, I think I've got a pretty good feel for this whisky, but I may regret this score in the future...

Score: 91/100
Excellent, if a bit too spicy. 

Previous Aberlour reviews:  



I don't have straws. 

...I should get a pipette.



Man, I'd love to find a bottle of this stuff.  It sounds awesome, but I can't seem to find it anywhere locally (Twin Cities, MN).  Sniff.

Great review!



Well, shit.  It'll be one year next month that I've been into scotch (whisk(e)y in general), and I figured there were stores I still needed to know about.  Wow, this place looks awesome.  Chi-Lake and Zipps tend to be my gotos, but I'm definitely going to check this place out this coming week.  

I appreciate the heads up!  Good to know there are some fellow scotchiteers in MPLS.



Yeah, the liq manager at zipps is cool.  

Thanks for the tips!



My favorite DD! It's miles above the standard Aberlour 12 and the higher abv and spices make it a much more complex and interesting whisky. 

I just can't figure out if it's being produced any more, and if it is, where it's being distributed. I emailed the Aberlour office using their "Request a tour" booking form (as they don't provide any email addresses) and the response I got was "I think it's still being made, though for export only." The 12NCF isn't even listed on the International site, though it is listed on the French site. 

Who knows. I've got five bottles just in case it's not coming across the Atlantic again.



Nice. I'm in the US, and in Chicago, at least, the stores I go to state that they only ever got one shipment and don't expect any more. 

I'm amazed at how cheap it is here at $50. What will your company be charging?



In April of 2012 I emailed them about it and got this response 

"In relation to your question,  this is a permanent edition in the Aberlour family but will only bottled at specific times in the year so we will have both the 12 year old Non Chill filtered and the Double Cask Matured in your line-up from now onwards"

HOWEVER, I haven't been able to find it locally since and state shipping laws prevent me from purchasing online :(



Apparently this is still double matured like the regular 12 Double Cask, though I was lead to believe that it was matured exclusively in sherry casks.

that may have been me that said that ;[ 

what's your source for me being wrong? I must have been misinformed as well. 



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another review.  and boy is it a good one.  you may have had this aberlour 12 before.  it is a double cask 12 year old that I much enjoyed on the cheap.  this new 
Aberlour 12 unchillfiltered 96 proof is a giant step up.  I had been seeing it in my store for a while but I had other whisky to buy and I thought it was just a renewed packaging.  boy was I wrong.  this is a completely different Aberlour than I've ever had.

One of the most enjoyable and balanced sherried single malts ever.  not being chill filtered has really made it stand out.  I quite enjoy the A'bunadh as well but this is as near perfect as any sherried whisky I've ever had.  It just narrowly escapes being the best next to Macallan Cask Strength.  I highly recommend this single malt. it was $48usd in my area and I almost passed it up.  again, perfectly balanced. and sensibly sweet.  I'm wasting time writing now when I could be having another dram, and you're wasting time reading this when you could be buying it right now!

97/100--glorious ambrosia.  



I think this was the winner on the first Scotch night I ever went to (as a rookie).

Good to see I wasn't just a complete noob!



I've heard 35 was a bit better than 36, and 37 better still. I think they're up to batch 38 now.     

Sadly, all the liquor stores around me are stocking 36. I found one with no bottles, got them to put it back in regular stock, they got some bottles in from wherever they do... and it was batch 36 still. That was 2 weeks ago.    

I'm afraid by this point that the stupid fucking liquor board has a warehouse where they stock bottles for their stores, and they haven't run out of batch 36 even though that was released, what, over a year back? I guess there's a chance I'll never see batches 37 or 38, and I'm a pretty damn sad panda because of it.



I've only sampled a couple batches of A'bunadh but I am amazed at how different they are.  Recently picked up a 35 after trying it at a bar and preferring it to the 28 they also had.  Looking forward to it.  

I'm pretty excited at hearing about this non-filtered 12 though, I actually like the Aberlour range I've tried so far (taking into account what it is).  I hope to see it up here in Canuckistan at some point.



seeing your score made me curious and a quick Google found it here  no picture but searching their site also shows the original double matured 12 as well so I am assuming this is the correct bottle.  

EDIT - Tex, this is for those that can't run out and grab it and have to order it... you're kinda like Ralfy on here and your recommendations/scoring will make a bottle sell out!  :)



I seldom visit the Binny's site as they do not ship to KY/IN :(  

Hell I even asked my uncle about it (he owns a tavern here) and the distributors he orders through haven't even picked it up yet.



Weekend greetings Scotchit! Imo it should be sure that a Single Malt should be non chill-filtered. Unfortunately, quite a lot of them are not so that's probably why it's so prominently labeled on the

Aberlour 12 Non Chill-Filtered

Speyside, 48%

color: amber with an orange tint

nose: strawberry marmalade, marzipan, hint of oak, milk chocolate, vanilla, baked bananas

taste: sherry, plums, raisins, cinnamon, strawberry, milk chocolate, hint of oak, toffee

finish: lingers

Fruity sweet, well balanced, very palatable sherried malt. Dat strawberry notes. Excellent stuff. And not expensive at all. Superb value for money.

91/100



Yup, that's basically my notes as well... i should maybe start doing reviews here sometimes but i still feel uncomfortable about this. 

Anyway, great dram 



Can you actually buy it now? Last I checked it was pretty much only available in the USA?

edit: indeed you can, woo!



Thanks to /u/nofansky for the sample via /r/ScotchSwap.

Aberlour have had a 12 year old expression in their stable from some time now, but a while back they made all the whisky nerds really happy when they announced a non-chill filtered version.

I?m not going to go too much into the science of chill-filtration, but basically for those who don?t know, chill-filtration involves chilling the whisky so that some of the oils and compounds freeze solid, the spirit is then filtered and these bits removed. The problem is that these compounds contribute quite a lot to the flavour and texture of the whisky.

The reason this is done is because these compounds can make the whisky go cloudy, which would make the uninformed consumer think something is wrong and not buy it. This clouding can be overcome by raising the ABV to 46% or more, and here they?ve bottled it at 48%, lovely.

Aged 12 years. 48% ABV. Non-chill filtered.

Nose: Quite a rich, toasted malt note. Honey, porridge. Dusty sherry. Light woodspice with cinnamon and sultanas. Creme Brulee. Stewed fruits with custard. Alcohol is a little too present, but nothing terrible.

Palate: Tart fruits. Bitter wood. Sour cherries. Herbal honey. Nutmeg. Parsley and unsweetened Rooibos tea kind of flair for a moment on the palate at the end.

Finish: Long. Parsley and rooibos notes from the palate carry over for just a bit, along with some orange peel and sea salt chocolate, and then a long dry fruit note with some hints of tannins.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 3/5

This wasn?t hugely complex but it did have some very pleasant notes to it and they were quite bold thanks to the lack of chill filtration. I?d have liked to have felt the sherry a little more but on the whole for a decently priced 12 year old malt this was a nice one. Don?t see myself getting a bottle but I?d definitely enjoy a dram of it here and there.

Reviewed in my blog:
https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2017/03/10/aberlour-12-non-chill-filtered/



At almost half of the price of a'bunadh it sits right there with glenfarclas 12 & 105 in the liter bottle for the cheaper drinkable sherrys for me but so much whisky to explore, who has the time to rebuy bottles anyway ;)

Nice review though - I only ever got parsley out of a rye



This is a good example of the wild variation of prices. This is no longer available in my state, but for a time was plopped about in the middle between the standard 12 (which is usually pretty cheap) and the A'Bunadh. At Master of Malt (UK) the NCF is running around $42 and the A'Bunadh at $47. For a $5 difference, it's a no-brainer to get an extra 12 percent ABV. 

If I could get the NCF regularly, locally, and at less than $60, I'd probably keep it around (A'Bunadh is currently $78 in my state).



Aberlour 12 NCF

Aberlour is a Speyside distillery with a reputation for heavily sherried Scotch - this is their 12 year, non chill-filtered (not to be confused with their double cask) version. Ralfy discusses chill filtration here. Thanks to /u/dmsn7d for the sample. 48% abv.

Nose - Very nice, bold sherry notes. Raisins, red grapes, low % dark chocolate, cinnamon, clove, allspice, honey, maybe some vanilla. Really nicely balanced.

Taste - Very easygoing entry. Honey, raisin, vanilla, allspice, with a bit of a drying coffee note and some black pepper coming in as it develops. Thick, rich texture - the lack of chill filtration is really felt here, in a good way. Flavors play well off each other here.

Finish - Black pepper is prominent, with dark chocolate, clove, red grapes, vanilla, and raisin. Nice long finish, that sticks with you a bit. Gets a bit of an astringent coffee-ish note here, though.

This is some very nice stuff - the flavors are bold and very well balanced, with a lot of weight to them. Outstanding value, as well (value does not factor in to my score). This whisky really makes you wish there weren?t so many whiskies that had been neutered via chill filtration. Gotta make those uneducated consumers happy though, I guess - at least there?s stuff like this out there though, even if it?s mostly IB?s.

89/100



I think I know the chart you mean.

It also explains why a Glendro 12 I bought in early 2013 I liked quite a bit more.



I agree with that, but for me that's not really a bad thing. At the moment it seems it's all about the "in-your-face" cask finisheses while the more suble scotches are at the background. If I compare the glendronach core range i've tased (12, 15, 18, 21) and the glenfarclas core range (12, 15, 18, 21, 25) i see two equally good ranges but with a different view on scotch. The Glendro's are in your face sherry while the glenfarclas' are more balanced.

I like both and have a glendronach 12 and glenfarclas 18 as a "daily" sherry dram. Sometimes i'm more in the mood for raisins and sometimes for something more suble.



Memories of Ice Storm '98. I was living in Montreal, was a teenager, had just gotten back to School and heard all the teachers give us the same old speech about being behind and needing to catch up. Our house had been broken into, so we were in the process of assessing everything that was taken, and then the whole world froze over.

On the first day I went out and bought booster packs of Battletech cards.

Jump ahead 15 years, and I'm in Toronto, coming back from an early Xmas at the in-laws, and the world is frozen. We have power this time, but the scene is very evident in my mind. The world is frozen again. Time for a dram to celebrate having power and not losing my pets (Geckos last time, luckily cats are more hardy and we had power this time).

Aberlour 12 Non Chill-Filtered is the third of the Aberlour 12 line, and let me just take this serene, nice moment to tell you that it's really friggin hard to tell these three apart. Not by taste, that's easy, I'm talking about in normal conversation. Seriously Aberlour, could you not have given them a nick-name or something? Dick, Sam, and Hephaestus? I mean, I mention I like Aberlour 12 and all of a sudden I have to explain the intricate details between the three almost similar named ones.

Anyway, back to a happy time and trying out this nice dram. It's Non Chill-Filtered and served at a higher Abv. than the other two offerings. Also, like the Sherry Cask, it's aged exclusively in Sherry Casks, and not mixed with Bourbon casks.

Special thanks to /u/dustlesswalnut for sending me a dram of this in a long ago swap. I'm just getting to it now, and I'm very happy I get to finish up the Aberlour 12 collection.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Region: Speyside

Abv: 48%

Colour: Orange wood

Nose: Raspberry, currant, anise, strawberry jam cooking, cloves, cherry cough syrup, ginger candy

Right off the bat you can tell it's stronger than the usual Sherry Cask. There's a lot more strength to it, punching you in the nose. Some spice, but this is mostly red fruit smell all the way.

Can't smell Sulphur though, so maybe I'm just lucky in that I don't notice it.

Taste: Cherry medicine, strawberry, licorice, jam, grape oil, ginger

First off, this is thick. Like drinking juice concentrate thick. And oily. Like that time you mixed oil and jam and just drank it straight.

No? Just me then? Okay.

More spices in the taste, and they slowly come out as time goes one. Mellow. Almost like the A'bunadh, but missing some elements.

Finish: Sherry, earth, grapes, acidic, ham, weak watermelon, salt

Now the heavy sherry influence comes in, and there's an acidic, almost meaty taste to it all. Again, close to what I remember about the A'bunadh, but not quite there.

Conclusion: So the big question is: Where are my pants?

Wait, no, that's not the current question, it's the one the judge asks me all the time.

The current question is: Where does the NCF fall in the Aberlour line. So we start with the 10, which is as good as the 12 year Double Cask. Sure the 12 year DC is a little better, but for the money, it's not adding much, and the balance on each are off. 

Then the Sherry Cask, as it has the little extra sherry influence over the others and tastes nice. Then you have this one. The mouth feel is better, and the flavours are more present. Yet none can shine a sulfuric candle to the A'bunadh, so that's where the NCF stays. If I had to choose, I'd probably still buy the Sherry Cask, as the small increase in quality probably isn't worth that much of a price increase.

83/100

Scotch review #134, Speyside #42

Other Aberlour Reviews

Aberlour 10

Aberlour 12 year Double Cask

Aberlour 12 year Sherry Cask

Aberlour A'bunadh Batch 45

