Double casked: some aged in sherry casks, some in bourbon casks then blended just prior to bottling:

Colour: Amber/Orange
Cost: $44.95 cdn
ABV: 43.1%

Nose:  Sweetness, sherry and christmas spices like cloves, nutmeg and cinnamon.  Some sort of cherry flavour - not like fresh cherries, but almost like the cherry flavouring in cough syrup (not unpleasant, though).

Palate:  Definite sherry, although a little weak.  Dried fruit and raisins, floral sweetness and nuts.  Very pleasant and smooth, but definitely not complex.  Tastes like a 10 year old.

Finish:  Medium in length.  Fruit, honey and spices.  Very smooth.  As finish fades, I get a citrus/orange note.

I find this a pleasant, drinkable whisky that represents a great value for its relatively low price.  I always have a bottle in my cabinet for "everyday drinking."  Not as good as the Aberlour 12 year old, but not far off, either.  

Taste: 66/75

Value: 11/15

Uniqueness: 2/5

Would buy again: 3/5

Total: 83



Tastes like a 10 year old.

?_?

I just bought a bottle of this, also a little nonplussed by the weak sherry levels. Still a lovely dram though. Cheers



Hi Scotchit!

Another quick review from my modest collection.

Review:

Aberlour 10 Year Old 40%

This is one of my favourite Speyside distilleries, mostly due to the fact that they offer very good scotch at a very reasonable price. ?40 for the fantastic cask strength a?bunadh and half of that for their standard line release! 

Very popular in France, probably due to it being one of the most easy distillery names to pronounce in French thus making it more memorable and marketable. Here we go.

Price: ?20 for a 700mL bottle.

Body: Orangey amber, thin and light bodied

Nose: Zesty citrus notes, fennel, oak, red wine, not terribly complex.

Palate: lemon, lime, honey, malted barley, turkish delight, peppery spices, a touch of vanilla.

Finish: Sweet aftertaste, lots of honey, elderflower. Short but sweet.

Notes: Definitely not the most challenging dram by any means, but at the same time very pleasant. This would probably be my go-to introductory scotch for a beginner. Simple Speyside with a nice sherry influence. 75/100



Aberlour 10 years old

So while watching Masters of sex I decided to open the sample from Aberlour 10YO I ordered some time ago, this sample comes from this online shop which I prefer over the supplied by MoM, since they are larger (60ml instead of 30ml) and generally cheaper (just some information, maybe already known, for the sample buyers).

Since my first experience with Aberlour A?bunadh I wanted to discover more of the Aberlour?s range, particularly about the 18YO and the 12NCF; so before purchasing such expensive bottles, I went for the basic expression, to get to know the Aberlour?s basics, and to be honest I am quite impressed.

Region:Speyside.

ABV: 40% CF and CA.

Age: 10 years old.

Colour: Burnished gold.

Nose: Sherry, honey and raisins, after a while it all goes away and I get more subtle floral notes, sherry dust, and wood. 

Taste: Nice sherry notes, you maybe want to wait for a while before having the first sip, since it?s first a bit harsh. Raisins, wood, tannic notes, red wine, chocolate, oak, sweet fruits, panettone.

Finish: Oak, light floral notes, honey, clean.

Price: 26? per bottle.

I enjoyed the sherry and sweet notes, but the oak and finish kill a bit the fun. The dram really improves with a couple drops of water, partly removing the wood factor, and enhancing the sherry sweet notes. 

65/100 - Nice and basic expression, I wouldn?t buy a full bottle, but I?ll most certainly order it in a pub.



Hullo chaps!

It's been a while since I posted my last review, so I thought I'd put this up. My grandpa turned 80 yesterday, so my brother (13) and I had bought him a bottle of Aberlour 10 as a present. I was wrapping it in paper last friday, as my dad came home. He asked me why I was wrapping the bottle in. Naturally I was confused. It appeared that he had opened the bottle thursday night, because he fancied a drink. THANKS OBAMA DAD!we ended up buying a HP12 instead. So, since the damage was done, I had a dram of it too. Sk?l!

Product: Aberlour 10 year old, 40% abv. Matured in refill sherry casks. 

Price: 220 NOK for a 1L bottle. Pretty damn good deal!

Nose:

The sherry influence is clear, boiled fruit, raisins, dried fruit in general, sweet and gentle, but also a bit young and spirit-y - nothing awful.

Taste:

Sweet, nutty, raisins, sherry influenced, pear, malt, strawberry, honey. Very gentle on the palate. I'd say that this would be inoffensive to anyone. Really nice.

Finish:

Very smooth and gentle finish - no alcohol sting that young whiskies sometimes have. Pear, chocolate, and a bit of smoke.

Conclusion:

This is a damn good dram. If it wasn't so expensive in Denmark (300DKK) it would be something I'd stock up on. It a better alternative to Glenfiddich 12, and is one of the few light single malts that I'm not bored with. I think I get the hype over A'Bunadh now - haven't tried it though - but I could imagine that this is amazing at CS.

Rating:

84/100

@review_bot



Please stop confusing us with all those different currencies. Please use USD or EUR, or something we can relate to. 

Great review by the way :)



Google actually makes it VERY easy to convert currencies quickly: http://lmgtfy.com/?q=220+NOK+in+USD

And to OP, I find Aberlour 10 to be the best value single malt in the UK just now :)  Very pleasant and usually on sale somewhere for a good price (around ?20-22 if you are willing to look for it)



True, but if you're interested enough, you'll do it though.  It would be convenient for me if every price listed on the internet was in GBP, but that's not going to happen, I'm not going complain when someone from another country doesn't convert everything to GBP for me, in fact I expect, and even prefer them to use their own currency.

Local currency is far more accurate and useful, conversion rates change, OP's 220 NOK could be a completely different price in USD or GBP in a month's time, depending on the economy.  So for the 5 seconds it takes to convert, you see a far more accurate price.



I said:

@review_bot dammit



/u/Rallerboy888's  reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Aberlour 10, Speyside, 40% ABV

From our six-dram tasting at the Aberlour distillery. The 10 isn?t available in the US, so I appreciated getting the chance to try it, even though I might not necessarily seek it out again unless by default.

Nose: Unusually (for me) cakey for Aberlour?cheesecake is predominant, along with baking spice and vanilla extract alongside the typical Aberlour dark fruits: plums, berries, currant, et cetera.

Body: Aberlour continues to manage to feel fuller and lusher than its ABV would necessarily indicate. Tasting this blind in not knowing it was only 40% ABV, it felt reasonably well-bodied.

Palate: A continued blending of the cakey notes and the fruit from the nose, but the cake has transformed into pastry or pie crust along with some salt and black pepper that I didn?t expect, and I?m not really sure if it fits or not. I feel like maybe it could, but it isn?t quite there.

Finish: Tails off very quickly, leaving things rather flat for an otherwise substantive (for a ten-year-old) dram. Which, okay, it?s a lot to expect from such a young bottle, but it?s Aberlour, my expectations are always going to be pretty high.

Price: Nearly 30 GBP at the Aberlour distillery gift shop, I saw it for as low as 22 GBP or so elsewhere (I think the G&M shop had it on sale at the time). Not really worth it when you have the 12 (both the standard and the NCF) to choose from at a similar price, but worth trying at least once.

If it were a soccer (er, football?) team: A team like RCD Espanyol or 1860 Munich that has to share its town with a bigger, better rival. You know it?s not bad, but when compared to its big brother (and how can you not compare it to its big brother), it doesn?t hold quite the same appeal.

Overall: As I implied in the price section, I think the standard 12 just edges it in overall quality (maybe it?s because I?m so used to the 12, since the 10 isn?t available in the States, but I?d like to think that isn?t the case). The 10 isn?t bad, it?s just not really worthwhile when I have the 12. 81/100



Aberlour, 10 Years Old, Distillery Miniature, Speyside, 40% ABV

No that's not a huge glencairn: this is a distillery miniature. Bought an arse load of samples from smwhisky.com.au (fellow Aussies check this site out) and thought I'd do one a day in alphabetical order, save a few days before the community review. Aberlour 10 is matured in both traditional and sherry casks and I believe is chill filtered. The bottle says Highland single malt whisky, but further down in fine print says Aberlour Speyside. Interesting. Broke the miniature up into 2x 25 mL samples over about 2 hrs. 

Nose: a lot of chocolate, quite light really (it is young), oak/wood, ginger/spices, a little grainy, a little floral, fresh fruit. Suffers from low ABV methinks. 

Colour: blergh.

Body: light, almost like water.

Palate: quite subtle, smooth, vanilla, wood, spices, some fruit (mainly apples), chocolate, bitter sweet. Delicate, but with a hint of sherry richness in the background to make things not completely boring.

Finish: short, fruity like palate, spicy oak 

To be honest, rather boring. I do like many smooth/unpeated scotches but Aberlour 10 is not very interesting. Would make a good introductory scotch for beginners, especially those who don't want to do the usual Glenfiddich/Glenlivet/Highland Park 12. I think older Aberlour expressions would be better.

83/100 ? very smooth, but doesn't really excite the tastebuds or nostrils.

EDIT: Am I drinking Glenfiddich 15 Solera? Very similar. 



A European Afternoon to you all, Scotchit. Here's an Aberlour with a
twist. The twist is...a sherry finish! Omgosh! Bascially this seems to
be an enhanced version of the typical 10 year old expression,
finished in sherry casks and bottled at 43%. Apparently used to be
exclusive to the French market. I've only seen this available in
Germany (I paid ?40) and France, can anyone confirm seeing it
elsewhere? Anyway here we go:

Aberlour 10 Year Old / Sherry Finish, Speyside single malt, ABV 43%,
chill-filtered, sherry cask finish

Colour: Light reddish orange.

Nose: An initial cherries note with cocoa powder and pumpkins,
becomes more fudge with a strong baked oranges aroma, worn leather in
the background and a whiff of Ros?.

Palate: Sweet caramel, moving on to spicy fruitcake covered in
honey, raisins, some coffee, then bold toffee notes all wrapped in a
fresh mint flavour. Quite rich, medium to full-bodied with a short of
creamy mouthfeel.

Finish:  Red fruits, very dominant sweet malt which has a faint
smoky flavour mixed in and sherried oak at the very end. Almost hot
but slow satisfying burn.

Overall this is another winner from Aberlour. Does it improve in leaps
and bounds over say the 10 or 12? Over the 10 I would say yes, it is
bolder and richer and more fruity in intensity. However, I think the
12 benefits from being more mellow and spice and butterscotch. The
sherry finish isn't especially strongly evident but this is what I
would point people towards over the standard 10 year expression.

79/100, would buy again



Interesting... the 10 year Aberlour's are somewhat scarce in the United States (or non-existent? I've never seen one). So, if I understand you correctly, you're saying the standard 10 year expression is not finished in Sherry casks? I didn't know Aberlour did anything that hadn't spent some time in ex-sherry.

My memory may be fleeting, but the (American?) 16 year is Sherried as well. Never had the 18 though... If anyone has, I'd love to hear about it.

Thanks for the review.



Hello scotchit! Today i'm reviewing Aberlour 10 courtsey of /u/Sparktrader.  On to the review. Slainte!    

Aberlour 10
40% ABV, 50 ml sample         

Nose Very sweet sherry, orange marmalade, mandarin, toffee apples, sweet lemon, wood spice.
Promising, many good notes. 

Palate Slight tongue prickle, thin mouthfeel, cinnamon sprinkled green apples, weak sherry, hints of butter and malt.
Dissapointment, to thin with not much going on.  

Finish Sweet Lemon zest, overripe orange, drying green apple.
Again, pretty flat and lackluster.

Well, this wasn't quite what i expected. I'm a big fan of the Aberlour spirit in general, but this is just mocking it. The nose gave hope, but the rest is just so very lackluster. Maybe Aberlour is only good bottled at CS?

Overall, 60/100  

Buy again? NO.



Yeah I was curious at which point Aberlour transitions from bland to something truly noteworthy. 

Because I really can't think of any entry level Speyside (6-12 year) that is truly head-turning.



Aberlour 10yo 40%

Nose: Appel drink & pear juice, green plums

Mouth: Mild, grassy

Finish: Grassy, red fruits, banana (green'ish), flowery, multi vitam juice, medium long

Comment: The nose seems a bit boring at first, but i really enjoyed the whole thing. Probably my favorite of the three and a great price/value.

82 points



Aberlour Ten 40%

Ex-Bourbon and Sherry. Apparently Natural Colour, I?m not sure though. 

A very nice nose! Well balanced spices and sherry. Perhaps a little on the pungent side, but a straightforward, sherry-bourbon nose. 

A grower not a shower this, starts off a bit thin and watery, but the spices and smoke layers a bit and it?s a nice effect. There?s little of the bourbon vanilla in the taste, and this is very sherried. But you do find yourself wishing there was a little more power in this. 

Comments: This is a good whisky. It?s very drinkable, but the finish is short, and whilst the taste is pleasant, the notes are somewhat fleeting. It would benefit immeasurably for being NCF and a higher strength. For this reason I will definitely be seeking out the 12 year old NCF! 

84/100

