Hi Scotchit!

Back home for Christmas, and my lovely parents decided to gift me this special flavour of Aberlour for my birthday. Being a fan of the 10 and the A'bunadh, I'm quite excited to try this. Unfortunately I left my glencairns in the burgh so this little sherry glass will have to do.

Aberlour Double Cask Matured 16 Years Old 43%

Price: N/A as it was a gift from the 'rents

Body: A deep amber, almost like a Ros?. 

Thin, does not really have any legs.

One thing I noticed was the amount of particles in the liquid; small specks dotted around. I haven't seen this in any of my other bottles. I wouldn't say it is cloudy, but perhaps it is non-chill-filtered? I know Aberlour have some expressions of their other lines that are NCF. It could also be due to the age maybe, as I don't own anything quite as old as this and maybe more came off the cask.

Nose: Big sherry presence, grapes, vanilla, a touch of woodiness, cinnamon.

Palate: Raisins, honey, caramelised sugar. Big oak presence, one can definitely notice the mix of Bourbon and sherry here. Lemon zest, slight saltiness, cough medicine.

Finish: Very smooth and quick. Sherry takes over with more lemon, a creamy sweetness and a tinge of burn.

Notes: A very decent scotch. I cannot help but feel however that this would have been superb at cask strength. At 43%, I feel like the flavours struggle to really push through, and the mesh of sherry and bourbon makes it seem a bit confused as to where it should be going. I want to taste the full smack of sherry Aberlour is known for, along with a good mix of vanilla sweetness. With this I get a bit of both, but no oompf of any particularly distinct flavours. A longer finish would be nice also.

Saying that, it is very mature and is very pleasant to drink. This would make a perfect ap?ritif, especially in summer. I enjoy the marriage of oak and sherry and the many floral notes. It is very good, but not quite there, therefore I think I'm going to give this an 82/100.

I cannot comment so much on the price, but I would guess there are better value bottles out there. However if introducing someone to scotch or gifting it to someone who might not be an experienced connaisseur, I would definitely recommend this.

Next up: I have quite a few bottles in the cabinet. Expect one of the following to be reviewed soon: Talisker 10, Laphroaig QC, Dalwhinnie 15, Glenmorangie Original.



Great first review!





I've been studying in Scotland for a while now (the thumbnail is a photo I took a few years ago) and before I came home for Christmas I decided to expand my family's (inexistant) whisky collection. I got them Laphroaig 10, Dalwhinnie 15 and Aberlour 16. Now they're opened, here's the Aberlour 16 review:

Colour: Rich amber

Nose: Fruity, peachy aromas, with the presence of salted toffee and vanilla, and a hint of chocolate. 

Taste: Very complex. It's well-rounded and has notes of fruits and wood initially, which develops into a sweet and mellow finish. The presence of vanilla and toffee comes in as you drink. There is no sting from the alcohol at any moment, it's smooth, rich and delicate from start to finish. No trace of peat as it is a sweet and creamy whisky. 

It is matured from sherry and oak casks, and stands at 43%. A great find from Speyside. After a few minutes of finishing the dram I got hit with fresh, grassy flavours. A whisky which constantly develops as you savour it. I really can't fault it for anything. 

? Taste: 71/75

? Value: 12/15

? Uniqueness: 4/5

? Would I Buy Again? 5/5

Score: 91/100



Unique in some aspects, but not unique in others, so technically this rating would be an average calculated from several uniqueness factors (for example taste, development, nose..). 

Its taste reminded me of one or two other whiskies but the ways in which the flavour developed (the grass coming after the toffee and vanilla which came after the fruitiness) was unique.

Does that help?



If anyone's interested, the scene in the photo is Glen Coe. The cottage is Black Rock cottage, and the mountain in the background is Buachaille Etive Mor ("boockle etiv more", the Big Shepherd of Etive).

It's a great shot! There's a small river nearby which is probably one of the most photographed scenes in Scotland...



Hello /r/scotch - here with my twenty-fourth review. I picked this bottle up a few months ago at Total Wine for around $65. I've only had the A'bunadh before this, and I remember not being overly impressed with it. I wanted to try another product from the Aberlour lineup as I love me some sherried whisky. 

Nose Thick sherry with the malt still coming through cleanly. Really pleasant oak, old leather, dates, and this odd note I can only describe as a salty, bbq type jerky. I've only had one other product that has had that jerky note to it - but it's definitely here - a combination of salt/savory/slightly sweet.

Mouthfeel Watery - little to no oils. Disappointing.

Palate Quite salty - much oakier than the nose let on. Little to no sweetness - the sherry influence is very minimal here to me. No heat as to be expected for 40%. 

Finish The sherry comes out to play here, but in small quantities still - maybe I"m just used to sherry bombs. The oak lingers with plums and brine.

Balance It's like it wants to be a sherried whisky, but didn't quite nail it.

Rating 84/100 - I gotta say I'm pretty bummed about this one. Maybe it will improve over time as this was the first time I opened it - perhaps it just needs a little air or something. I thought Aberlour had a reputation for being heavy with their sherry, but the Fine Oak even put this to shame I thought which isn't even that heavily sherried. Maybe it's the low proof, or maybe I just have a bad bottle? 

Value for the money At $65, I would pass on this. Try it at a bar instead if you're curious.



Thus was a letdown for me as well. Not terrible but just ... Eh.

The A'bunadh, 18, and 12 NCF are where it's at with Aberlour.



Aberlour 16 (43% abv) ($75)

Color: dark amber

Nose: spicy wood, floral, caramel, toffee, raisins

Taste: floral, plums, oak, apple, vanilla, honey

Finish: sherry, spicy oak, cinnamon, tobacco, vanilla, plums, honey

Overall: 87/100

The 16 is a bit darker than the NCF despite the lower abv. The nose is not particularly powerful. There is quite a bit spice present on the nose with some nice floral aromas behind the spiciness. I also got caramel and toffee notes, which I am more use to in bourbons. It makes me wonder if they use first-fill bourbon casks with the other half being the sherry barrels. While I get the spiciness that is not uncommon to sherry casks, there is less fruit present than I would have thought. The raisin is hidden behind all the other aromas. In the mouth, the first taste was of a sweet and floral, like chamomile tea. The sweetness I attributed to plums, apples, and honey. The fruit was certainly present, but it also was not particularly strong. I also got some oak and vanilla from the bourbon barrels. The finish was longer than I expected from a 43% abv. I wasn?t a huge fan of this in the mouth, but the finish certainly made up for it. It was long and spicy. The sherry finally made itself fully present and does not disappoint. The oak also was far more present in the finish than it was in the rest of the dram. The cinnamon and vanilla once again brought the bourbon notes. There was also a subtle sweetness of honey plums. I was surprised by the bitterness from tobacco, but I thought it added to the finish. I have to admit I had higher expectations from this when I bought it because I adore the A?bundah. However, this is a very good scotch. It may not had been the sherry bomb that I was expecting, but I thought the bourbon barrels really added to the complexity of this. I think this would be a lot better if it was offered non chill-filtered like the 12. 

Aberlour 12 Non Chill-Filtered (48% abv) ($40)

Color: amber

Nose: sherry, raisins, strawberries, grapes

Taste: plums, currants, sherry, fruity, honey, floral

Finish: cherry, plums, vanilla, grapes, toffee

Overall: 88/100

The color is a tad bit lighter than the 16. The nose is much more powerful than the 16. Immediately, I get sherry characteristics of raisins and strawberries. I also got some vanilla. While this nose stronger than the 16, it is far less complex. The nose reminds me a lot of a more low-key version of one of my favorites, Aberlour A?bunadh. In the mouth, the plum that were present in the 16 really stand out. Along with currants and other fruits common in sherry. The honey and floral characteristics from the 16 were also present. The flavor is much stronger than in 16 and the mouthfeel was much more rich and creamy. The finish consisted of cherries and plums. With a vanilla flavor that reminded me of the vanilla in the A?bunadh. There were also strong grape notes with a bit of nutty toffee thrown in there. Overall, I like the NCF slightly better than the 16. It tastes very similar to a water-downed A?bunadh and is much more of the sherry bomb I was expecting with Aberlour. However, it is much more one note than the 16. The bourbon barrels and the extra years really add to the complexity of the 16, but the richness and strength of the flavors from the NCF tips the scales in its favor. Both of these are good scotches worth trying, but the NCF is nearly half the price of the 16 and at least its equal and in my eyes a bit better. I would have this on hand at all times if it were available around me, but I had to get this one from Fine Drams. Still neither matches up to the A?bunadh, which is one of my favorites.



I only had the 18 and the 12NCF (at different times though)...and I even liked the NCF more than the 18 (having them opposite each other would be interesting tho) 

A Frenchman familiar with the whole family once told me that the 15 is his favorite, and he likes it more than all of the others



While I was out this afternoon looking at a bottle to pick up as something extra for my Scotchswap Secret Santa, I came across this bottle at an extremely reasonable price - $60, while every other place I?ve seen has had it at $65+. I found it quite hard to pass up at that price.

This is a Highland Single Malt, which gets a sherry finish after aging in first fill Bourbon casks. 

Nose: Both the Bourbon and Sherry casks stand out here. The bourbon seems especially strong, with what I can only describe as bourbon - vanilla and cinnamon, mostly - but transitions nicely to a sweet, sherry fruit. Some cherry, but mostly more mellow fruits.

Palate: The bourbon influence seems to be lacking here, just sweet fruit and tea, going into a slight tobacco into the finish.Some floral, almost leafy notes. 

Finish: Now that?s where the vanilla and cinnamon went to. A reasonably long finish that has a ton of influence from the bourbon. Its also quite spicy on the finish. 

Overall: Quite a fine scotch, but not something I would be broken up about to find out they were discontinuing. Its something I would gladly pull out for a visitor or someone trying to broaden their scope of the scotch world, but not one to go out of your way to find.

Rating: (Very Good) - 86

As an comparison, I would rank this very similarly to the Balvenie 14 Caribbean cask, especially since they're at the same price point for me. Good, solid scotch that are well worth trying, but nothing to start trying to chase down.



Aberlour 16, Speyside, 40% ABV

This was a birthday present bottle from the rents earlier this year?they asked me what single malts I liked the most, I told them Aberlour and Old Pulteney, and this was the wonderful gift that resulted. I made it last for several months, and only just now got around to draining the bottle. While I make clear my disappointments in the review, it should be noted that I am probably harsher on this bottle because I hold the rest of Aberlour?s range?and the 12 non-chill filtered and A?bunadh especially?in very high esteem, and while the 16 is a perfectly fine bottle on its own merits, when put in the context of the rest of Aberlour?s core range, it suffers just a bit.

This is also one year to the date from my first review?of Old Pulteney Navigator?in addition to being my sixtieth review. I also get to visit Aberlour (along with Glenfarclas and Glen Grant) in a few weeks on vacation and I can?t wait. I?ll have reviews at the ready for y?all afterwards!

Nose: All sorts of sherried goodness here?figs, dates, plums, and blackberries, all blanketed in a slight brown sugar scent to give it a fruit cobbler or cake feel. Very Aberlour, and very, very good.

Body: Bottles like this one are why I include body in my reviews, as opposed to just remarking on the ABV. On the one hand, bottling a 16-year-old single malt at 40% is borderline criminal. On the other hand, this is full enough and lush enough that Aberlour can almost get away with it. Almost.

Palate: There?s a vein of saltiness that cuts through this that I haven?t experienced with the 12 or 12 NCF from Aberlour. I?d like to think that if I were nosing this one blind, I could identify it as Aberlour, but this palate would definitely throw me. It?s not a bad quality at all, just unexpected. The fruitiness remains and is really quite outstanding, making for an excellent palate.

Finish: There is disappointingly not much of one. A bit of heat and pepper, and some of the dark, curranty fruits from the nose, and then it fades immediately in the mouth. Keeps me from rating it higher, which is unfortunate, because the nose and palate are genuinely fantastic.

Price: USD $70 at Total Wine. A bit overpriced, I think. I can get the A?bunadh for the same price, or the 12 NCF for ten bucks less, and both I would rate higher than the 16. It?s good and definitely worth trying, but I feel like from a quality perspective, it should be a few bucks cheaper, which is unfortunate, because I feel like bang-for-buck is something that Aberlour normally does extremely well.

If it were a soccer (er, football?) club: Belgium?s 2014 World Cup squad. Belgium needed extra time to beat an overmatched US squad in the round of sixteen before crashing out in the quarterfinals, and though as a team it had a context of real quality, and some truly superlative parts to it, you still come away thinking that it could have and should have been just a little bit better. That?s exactly how I felt about Aberlour 16. It?s plenty good, but it?s just not quite where it can be.

Overall: I think many distilleries? second-level aged statement (that is, the one next-oldest from its youngest age statement) tend to be a bit milder than its younger sibling. I get why that?s the case with my beloved Aberlour, but I?m not sure it?s what they do best. 86/100



but I'm sorry that it was so bad for you that you considered pouring it down the drain. :(

it could have been my mood at the time or that my friend gave me a sample so I had nothing invested in it.



Back again!  Trying to get some reviews shelled out before I have my hands full with my advent calendar.  This is an Aberlour 16, which I believe has a modest amount of caramel added and is likely chill-filtered.

Nose:  Raisin, molasses, maple syrup, red apple skin, pear, wood pulp, oatmeal, dry oloroso, and lime.  Hints of vanilla, ginger, and cinnamon.

Taste:  Fruity and fairly woody, although this doesn't have the almost bourbon-like oak punch of the A'bunadh.  Oatmeal again surprisingly (part of that woody note) with apple skin, vanilla, banana, and orange.

Finish:  Not terribly long, with lots of dry oak and spice.  Some cantaloupe and baked apples fill with cinnamon, clove and a few other spices I can't put my finger on.  (Cumin?).  Ends dry and woody with tannins building on the tongue over the dram.  The alcohol(?) gives a fairly noticeable 'tang' to this, despite the low ABV.  This is something I find in only a few distilleries, Glenlivet being another.  I relate it to the dry, sharp flavor of seltzer, and for me it's a negative impact.

Final notes:  Not at all a bad dram, although I was expecting something a bit different than this.  There's something... harsh about it.  At 16 years this whisky has a very woody character, so if you like that kind of thing it might be a good choice.  That being said, it still retains that fruity speyside-like character with a dry finish.  This is somewhat reminiscent of a Glenlivet-style dram, although I think this has a much more interesting profile.

Final score: 87/100



Funny you found all of those Glenlivet comparisons when Aberlour is so closely tied to Glenlivet. I admit I've never spent much time with Glenlivet, so I never caught this, but it's certainly intriguing.

Source: http://i.imgur.com/PV1yv.jpg



Review #93: Aberlour 16

Speyside, 43% ABV

Nose: Dark chocolate, sherry, cinnamon, caramel

Palate: Oak, cinnamon, sherry, dark chocolate, ginger, cherries, licorice

Finish: Wood, dry, sherry, fruit, slightly bitter

85/100 Well balanced spicy-sweet, like a cinnamon, caramel candy. Thick and almost syrupy at times, the licorice and bitter notes throw it off a bit for me - need to try this at cask strength because the low ABV does this no justice.



Back again this Friday with a followup to the Aberlour 18 review I just posted. I received this sample back in February from /u/Schmibitar but never got around to reviewing it (along with ~25 other samples!)

The 12 NCF is a staple in my cabinet (I've got backups to last me a couple years!), the a'Bunadh is extremely solid and worth picking up now and again, and my first impression of the 18 is FANTASTIC!

I had a strange time with this one-- read on!

Aberlour 16

Price: N/A

Color: Whisky.

Region: Highland

ABV: 43%

Nose: The little strawberry candies that come in cellophane that looks like... strawberries. Very slightly earthy, in a stale beer kind of way. Isopropyl alcohol

Palate: Very thin on the palate, light vanilla and slightly floral. Not really much here.

Finish: Extremely long alcohol burn and capsaicin spice. It takes 3-4 minutes or a few good swigs of water to get the burn to go down, but once it does there's a bit of of a fermented fruitiness, but I'm honestly reaching to get that.

82/100

This one was quite a letdown. I'm not casting it aside entirely, after all it's a small sample that was bottled 10 months ago. It was stored in the dark and I made sure the caps were all tight, but there's a chance that something in the bottle before tainted it or something.

The alcohol burn was intense, and it wasn't an ethanol burn-- as I said, it tasted like rubbing alcohol. The strawberry on the nose was right up front with my nose above the glencairn , but other than the alcohol and capsaicin burn I was reaching pretty far for the rest of the flavors.

I drank about 3/4 of this and set it down for ~45 minutes to let it get some air. It was noticeably less harsh with some lighter fruity notes and more manageable pepper, but it was still lackluster. I don't know, maybe it was swapped with some cask strength expression I've never tried?

I would try this again from a fresh bottle-- if anything to satisfy my curiosity-- but I'm bummed that it didn't line up with the rest of my Aberlour experiences.



0.7L 43% vol. Sherry and bourbon? oak casks.

Nose: oak, vanilla, a bit sherry, nutty, caramelized bellpeppers?, a tad tannins

Mouth: nutty, a bit creamy, a bit caramel

Finish: sherry, oak, relatively long, a bit tannins, bourbon vanilla, caramel, cream

Comments: Well rounded and pleasant whisky, thou it is fairly similar to the 15yo Select Cask Reserve imo. Around 50?.

84 upvotes

Previous Aberlour/Glenfarclas reviews

Aberlour 10 - 82pts

Aberlour 12 Sherry Cask - 81pts

Aberlour 12 Double Cask - 83pts

Aberlour 15 Double Cask - 82pts

Aberlour 15 Select Cask Reserve - 84pts

Aberlour 15 Cuvee Marie d'Ecosse - 85pts

Glenfarclas 10 - 78pts

Glenfarclas 105 - 81pts

Glenfarclas 12 - 80pts

Glenfarclas 15 - 83pts

Glenfarclas 17 - 83pts
