Alright well, this makes 30 reviews. I wanted to make it something special, which I have plenty of available but at 4 drams in so far tonight I opted to pull one out of my journal from back around Christmas. I do have to get up for work tomorrow, after all. Photo was saved on my phone.

Aberlour 12 Double cask matured

Nose: Just like I make my oatmeal... raisins, brown sugar and a bit of cinnamon.

Taste: Sugary sweet and warming. Heath candy bar. red apples

Finish: Apples and brown sugary sherry. Quite long and lovely. 

84/100



Just a quick one, I have a roadrunner to catch. The basic bottle of the Speyside staple, the indispensable Aberlour 12.  43%, $41.  

Nose: sherry, floral, cinnamon, and watermelon.  

Taste: smooth malt, big sherry with a late bite. Finishes with unripe strawberry, menthol, almonds, lastly lingering light smoke.  

Warming. Deep. Aby12 is a go-to malt for me.  92/100



43% ABV

Nose: Sweet dried fruits on the nose, figs, raisins and sultanas.  Mild clove with unripe cherries.   To me it seems there are decent sherry casks at work here. From the standard oak casks I only get a hint of pear and cooked apples.  A pleasant nose, but not fantastic.

Taste: The sherry casks all but disappear, and the oak casks take front stage.  Ever so slightly " spirity ", even though it is bottled at a relatively low 43% ABV.  A mishmash of both cask characteristics; very slight notes of the usual sherry cask raisin and chocolate flavors, and more dominate notes of vanilla and honey.  No particular flavor steals the show, and not many others stand out as well.  Somewhat disappointing.  Only barley and oak seem to make any lasting appearance.

Finish: The finish is a tad dry and barley infused and rather uneventful.  A quick flash of that sherry cask sweetness appears, but is just as quickly gone.

I can't help but think this whisky was matured in the sherry casks for too short a time.  They seem like decent casks, especially in the nose, perhaps the time given to the sherry cask maturation needs to be longer to help bring out that luscious sweetness throughout a little more. It certainly isn't sherry rich like A'Bunadh nor is it meant to be.  I could see how this whisky would appeal to those who aren't particularly fond of overbearing or even moderate sherry cask influence.  I was personally hoping for a little more.

85/100



Colour: Bright yellow beer with an orangish hue.

Nose: Sherry, herbs, slight smoke, spices, citrus.

Palate: Sweet, smooth, pepper, much smoother and well rounded than the Aberlour 10, sherry elements blend nicely, creamy orange, creamsicle, potting soil.

Finish: tingly, bright, malty wood.

Matured in two types of casks, what kind and how long: perhaps someone here can share but one is obviously sherry.  Really nice.  The 10 is also very agreeable, but this takes it to a higher level.  I've tried the 10, the 12, and the A'bunadh and they're all very nice.  I really look forward to trying the 16, 18 and NCF sometime in the future.

Bottled at 43%

85/100



Aberlour 12 Double Cask Matured

(43%, ex-bourbon + ex-sherry)

?

Thanks to u/Devoz for this sample! I?m constantly amused by what is in your kill pile that I have yet to try.

?

Nose: Red apple, cinnamon, raisin, vanilla cake, lemon, hints of chocolate and dehydrated banana

Taste: Oak, toffee, vanilla, orange, pepper

Finish: Oak, malt, apple, pepper

? 

Sweet and spicy notes of cinnamon apples lead things off on the nose. Behind that, overall impressions of cake-like sweetness with various toppings. Good balance initially between the cask maturations here, though the collective tapers off fairly quickly. Watery texture, with the sherry notes notably absent in the taste. Oaky notes emerge up front, along with some severely watered down sweetness. The finish continues with the predominant oak, maltier now with a slight warming peppery tingle.

Quite a pleasant start to the nose, but unfortunately goes rapidly goes downhill from there. The sherry influence is lost rather quickly, and what?s left is too subtle and quite watery. Easy enough to drink and there isn?t anything unpleasant? the taste and finish just need more punch to lift it up (and more of the sherry influence wouldn?t hurt). Can?t imagine what the 40% version is like.  

?

76/100



I like your review; it gave me a good picture of what the experience of drinking this whisky was though out the experience. 

How do you think this compares with whiskey in a similar style? Like Balvenie Double Wood or Glenmorangine Lasanta or another lightly sherry finished drink.



Hmm... good question. I feel like this one finds a middle ground between the two in the way the ex-bourbon and ex-sherry influence the experience. All three ended up in the 76-78 range for me.

I thought the Lasanta had more prominent sherry notes in the foreground and held them more through the taste (adding some grape and cinnamon to the mix). It seemed mustier though, and there were traces of sulphur in the one I tried.

The Balvenie Doublewood was more of their typical creamy honey/cereal/vanilla/oak profile throughout with the sherry slightly rounding things out in the background, almost like an afterthought. 



I had this last week and I did not care for it.

The sweetness and the orange taste is a overripe fruitiness without any spike or acidity, it almost tastes like cake glaze and canned tangerines. Absolutely not the kind of sweetness and fruit i want to have in my whiskies.



When I first tried the NCF I thought it was hot and spicy, and really didn't have a place in the lineup. If I wanted something that took effort to drink, I'd grab an A'bunadh. If I wanted an easy drinker, I'd grab the DC. Well, I had a little of each left so what better way to find out if that's accurate than to try them next to each other!?

?

Aberlour 12 DC 40% vs Aberlour 12 NCF 48%

?

Scoring legend:



hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  what with rockindaddy's cross examination and BigpapiC-dog's Mystery Dram (Aberlour NCF 12) reviews, I figured I would dust off this old one that I've had in my archives.  Aberlour 12 Double Cask Matured 86 proof

not bad but no contest compared to the NCF 12.  or even the Abundah.  really cheap locally, around $22 but I'll just save that bit and put it towards some more Macallan Cask Strength before the supply runs out.  got 2 more bottles recently...

84/100

review #104 - |review 105 at r/bourbon|

edit: btw if you ever need a nice photo for your post and you dont have your own (which doesnt matter) the website whiskey exchange always has nice large photos.  just click on the whiskey, click the picture to open up the zoomed window, right click on photo, copy image url and upload that to imgur.  



Hey! Let's check out some available and affordable Speysiders:

Aberlour 12

Sherry Cask Matured

Speyside, 40%

Matured in Oloroso Sherry casks.

color: amber

nose: cinnamon, hint of strawberries, icing sugar, prunes, marzipan, nectarines

taste: dry Sherry, red apples, hint of tangerine, toffee

finish: eucalyptus, apple

Watery and not very rich. Soft and mild. I got this in many Aberlours, except the NCF and the A'Bunadh of course. Seems that Aberlour needs higher strength and NCF... This is not bad for the price paid though.

77/100

Aberlour 12

Double Cask Matured

Speyside, 43%

color: amber

nose: fruity sweet: apricots, bananas, williams pears; vanilla, toffee

taste: mild sherry, malted milk, cake, raisins, creme caramel, mint, tiny hint of smoke

finish: lingering, mint, apricots, pepper

US version with 43 % FTW. 3% helps and it shows. Glenfiddich, Balvenie, or Aberlour here are really good malts, but only shine at higher strength.

80/100

So: Aberlour 12? Go for the NCF.



bought this one after reading Tex's Aberlour 12 NCF review, seeing the LCBO price and thinking whoa! what a deal! turns out this is the double cask matured :P

i'm probably disappointed because i thought I was getting one of Tex's faves and didn't. it's a little basic, not a ton of flavours in it. I enjoyed it, but it wasn't incredibly complex or breathtaking. 

Rating: 83/100



Might find some Glenfarclas or GlenDronach, but they both improve with age, so bear that in mind. Sherry casks are expensive, which means sherried whiskies tend to cost a bit more. 

Also, the 12 NCF spends no time in bourbon barrels, just sherry casks, so it has more sherry. Also higher ABV and NCF.



Thanks to u/generalbirdy for this sample.

Aberlour 12 year old 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light/Medium

Nose: Loads of juicy fruit, especially green apple, plum, raisin, but it's all quite artificial- candy, apple sours, pear drops, some nuttiness and spice.

Taste: Creamy arrival, lots of fruitiness developing- intense apple and pear hit with spice. More drying and malty towards the finish.

Finish: Short length. Milk chocolate and coffee.

Only just a tad better than the 10yo.

65/100



Network Average: 76.2

Best Score: 91

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent