I recently attended a "Scotch Enthusiast's" tasting event at the local LCBO here in Toronto, and tried as best I could to take some detailed notes on all of the whiskies on offer.  That said, there were definitely one or two that bear further samplings.

Until then, a few (somewhat abbreviated) reviews:

Aberfeldy 12 Year Old - 40% ABV, $59.95 at the LCBO

Colour: Auburn

Nose:  Quite a sweet nose? Honey, toffee, citrus, and just a hint of peat smoke.

Taste:  Light but creamy body on the palate.  Sweet honey, barley malt, toffee, vanilla, raisins.

Finish: Those citrus notes from the nose finally appear on the finish.  Fresh citrus peel with vanilla, remaining honeyed barley notes, a touch of spice and barest hint of peat.

Overall: There?s nothing wrong at all with this whisky, but by the time we?re 4 whiskies into the tasting, it just doesn?t hold up to some of the preceding malts.  I don?t know if it?s the lower ABV, or just that the whisky is more delicate by its nature, but it feels neutered.  If I were out at a pub and just wanting an easy sipping scotch for the evening, I could see myself going for this.  But if I?m at home or at an event with friends I couldn?t see myself choosing to drink this.

Score:  76/100




Just running though whats left of my swaps. Now in the spot light is....

Aberfeldy 12

Nose: Sweet, spicy, and dry. Reminds me of a dry wheat field at the end of summer. Hint of smoke.

Taste: Honey, apple, pepper, cream, and a dry wine note I am guessing is a sherry hint.

Finish: Sweet and smooth with a mild bite in the back of the throat. Tobacco aftertaste and leaves a dry feeling.

Overview: 78 While I enjoyed every taste and note that I found in this whisky, I left me with a feeling that I just drank a Glenlivet and Glenfiddich 12, which while not bad, isn't amazing either. A damn decent dram and one I would drink again, but I would not buy a whole bottle. However, it would be a good beginner's drink.



Christmas haul

Aberfeldy 12 is the second last scotch in the batch. This one I honestly don't know very much about, and I don't remember ever trying it before. So, I'm going to try it blind, without reading the bottle or researching it, and see what happens:
? Colour: Caramel.
? Nose: It's really hard to get anything off of this one, similarly to the Glenfiddich 12. I do get a hint of sugar, and a bit of alcohol, but not much else.
? Taste: Peat at the start, but it quickly fades away and isn't overpowering in the slightest. Orange and citrusy notes after, with a definite sweetness.
? Finish: Long and smooth, with some heat and a hint of burning. Very pleasant.

This is a really nice one. I don't currently know where it's from, or how it's produced, but the complexity is quite appealing, the finish is awesome, and it's a fine example of where a hint of peat can really add something to a scotch, without it becoming the central focus of it. If someone were to go on a progression from unpeated to peated scotch, this would have to be somewhere between Old Pulteney 12 and Highland Park 12, which, by any respects, is good company to keep. 80/100.



Aberfeldy 12. Not bad, not fantastic, pretty cheap to buy.

Nose: oily, bitter butter, smoke, banana, medicinal plant (might be a little aniseed, I'm really not sure but it's definitely interesting!)

Taste: butterscotch, sweet, smoke, pepper, slight bitterness now. Doesn't taste very complex but not unpleasant.

Finish: very little aftertast, the warmth lingers on but nothing much

Overall: This is a whisky I got for pretty cheap, so I'm not complaining at all. It's not bad, it's not fantastic, it's one of those middle-of-the-range whiskies you can serve to people you know won't really care what they get. That said, it's still rather unique in its own way, and if you can find a bottle for cheap, then why not. 

Score: 76/100



Aberfeldy 12, 40% ABV

Before trying the Tomatin 15 in my previous set of reviews (of pretty much all of Tomatin?s core range?tl, dr version is ?don?t bother?), I would say that the Aberfeldy 12 was the most boring single malt I had ever tried.  But then the aforementioned Tomatin 15 staggered into my life, and the still thoroughly yawn-inducing?but higher quality?Aberfeldy 12 was dethroned from its rather undesirable pedestal, and I wanted to give an updated take on the artist-formerly-known-as-the-most-boring-single-malt-ever, aka the base whisky of Dewar?s, aka the Aberfeldy 12.  So here we go:

Nose: Different fruity notes, including apple tart and liqueur.  Pastry or scone dough, honey, some salt, and several hints of straw.  Not the most exciting or complex nose, but still perfectly pleasant.

Body: A bit thin and could coat the mouth better, but adequate.  Isn?t memorable at all, and the 40% ABV works against it here, I think.  There?s some substance to it, to be sure, but not enough.

Palate: Lots of apple tart and honey from the nose, some brown sugar, and just a bit of spices and orange peel or coriander as well.  A decent (if again, not complex) balance of sweet and fruity.

Finish: Surprisingly smoother than I remember.  It doesn?t really linger, but it also doesn?t burn either.  Still entirely nondescript, though.  My memory of that remains firmly intact and validated.

Price: USD $40 at a nearby Total Wine.  Definitely overpriced, this is a $30 bottle of scotch, not a $40 bottle, but it?s not so overpriced as to be criminal, which I guess keeps with its priority of being inoffensive.

Overall: Still tastes like a more boring Dewar?s.  Still tastes boring in general.  But it could be a lot worse, and the Aberfeldy 12 does have some genuine smoothness and balance working in its favor.  Its problem is that it?s a daily session drink, but it isn?t priced like a daily session drink.  I can get its qualities from Speyburn 10 or the aforementioned Dewar?s for much less, and I would, too.  77/100



GlenDronach CS batch 1  

Score: 94/100

Aberfeldy 12  

Score: 84/100

Caol Ila 12  

Score: 79/100

Continuing on with my quick notes on drams from vacation.  These are all from a few bars in Edinburgh.  Was nice to finally get my hands on a dram of the GlenDronach CS, also had a chance to try some others that while widely available in the states, never interested me enough to get a bottle.  Also, it's amazing that every bar in Scotland has like 20-100 different whiskies just hanging around. 



Today I'm reuniting two long lost brothers from the Aberfeldy distillery. One is the standard 12 year and the other is a 10 year independent bottling from Signatory.

Aberfeldy 12, 40% ABV:

Color: Rich golden with a brownish tint.

Nose: Heathery, spicy.

Taste: Very sweet. Maple syrup, brown sugar, vanilla. There's some zesty citrus character accompanying the spices in the nose.

Finish: The sweetness fades and it finishes with oak and a little smoke.

Signatory Vintage Aberfeldy 1998, 43% ABV, natural color:

Color: Very pale straw.

Nose: Ethanol, mint, permanent marker.

Taste: Very hot for 43% ABV. Vanilla, barely malt, toffee, peppermint. Lots of wood character.

Finish: Long lasting intense dry oak.

Normally I'm a pretty big fan of Signatory bottlings, but in this case I have to give the edge to the distillery bottling. The biggest difference between these two was in the nose; the distillery bottling was very spicy and interesting while the Signatory was very plain and almost vodka-like, with a weird chemical note. As far as taste goes, the distillery bottling was sweeter and easier drinking, while the Signatory was drier and hotter with more oakiness.

I was really pleasantly surprised with the Aberfeldy 12, especially as I'm not a huge fan of the Dewars blended scotches, of which this is a core component. Reminded me a lot of Cardhu, for those of you who might have tried that. I'd gladly recommend it as a tasty, inoffensive value malt.

Aberfeldy 12: 75/100

Signatory Vintage Aberfeldy 1998: 65/100



Review # 103

Aberfeldy 12  40% 750 Anniversary Gift

Color:  Amber + 1.5 Quick Wide Tears and Legs.

Nose:  Malt, Overripe Apples, Cinnamon, Slightly Decayed Grass, Phenol note, Yeast, Pear, Barley Syrup, Ethyl (rushed production?) Banana.

Mouth Feel:  Medium Oily, Slightly Spicy.

Taste:  Burnt Toast, Black Pepper, Barley, Older Oak, Turnip, Sawdust and Pencil Shavings, Lemon Zest, Green Grapes.

Finish:  Damp Wood, Mineral Zinc, Dry Grass, Bittersweet Toffee, Wintergreen.

With Water:  Nose:  Dry Grass, Syrup, Honey, Vanilla.
Taste:  Caramel, Dry Vegetal, Pepper, Mineral, a Metallic Zing, Sour Green Grapes.

Score:  Nose:  21.5,  Taste:  20,  Finish:  20,  Balance:  21,   Total: 82.5

After sampling a couple of the Dewar?s expressions one can detect that this single malt is a huge component of their blends.  It?s a decent daily dram for the right price but not worth going out of your way for IMO.  The nose opens and sweetens nicely with water and time.  I?ve read the 21 is much better.  I?ll get back to that if I happen across a sample.



Review #101

Hello everyone, got another quickie from my backlog. Aberfeldy is a mellow Highlander known for its role in making up the common blend Dewars. Let?s see how it holds up as a single malt. (Sorry for the blurry picture, I think I had one too many that night)

Aberfeldy 12, Highland, 40% abv

Nose: Citrus zest, marmalade, fresh maltiness, touch of dessert spice, wisp of smoke, whipping cream

Palate:  Mild toasty oak, touch of floral opens to a mellow and sweet profile, toffee, sweet lemon yogurt, candied yams.

Finish: A lot of the sweetness goes away fast in the finish, turns up dry, grassy, heathery, the oak hangs around, bit of a metallic bite, some salt, touch of honey essence, not really sweet.

75/100

Simple enough, good easy drinker albeit a pretty basic one. I actually struggled to pull much out of this one so a lot of my notes came across as broad, but that just happens sometimes I guess.



Had a couple of these the other day, both independent bottlings, one signatory (10yr) and one chieftains (13). That is the 10 spot on, but the  13 was actually a decent dram. Give it a try if you come across it.

*edit: the 13 reminded me of the Balvenie Single Barrel.



The new year is almost upon us! It is my resolution to make 2015 a more active year for my blog than 2014 was. As resolutions go, that's not a bad one at all. Let's jump the gun slightly and Aberfeldy 12 year old. Aberfeldy (along with some other malts in Dewars' stable) is enjoying updated packaging, which I will say is an improvement on the old presentation. Unfortunately, I never tried the old version, so I can't comment as to whether or not the liquid itself has been changed in any way. I guess the new packaging worked!

Aberfeldy 12

Color: Amber -1 (Though the telltale e150 orange is noticeable.)

ABV: 40% (Not even 43%? So sad.)

Aroma Neat:

Salty Peat, Hot Barley Porridge, Lemon Zest (slightly), Salted Caramel (do I mean toffee?)/Honey, White Peaches, Light Char, Vanilla.

Peat and a youngish graininess jump out at the fore. Salted sweets and a light fruitiness (mostly citrus) are buried deeper. In some ways, this reminds me of a less mature Laddie 10. Not bad!   

Aroma Water:

Honeyed Oranges, Driftwood Fire, Cereal Grains, Toasting Oak Chips, Lemon Juice on White Peaches/Pears, Creamy Vanilla.

The smoky side of the peat emerges now, but sweet fruit notes have taken the lead. Everything is very subdued though. At 40% and a bit young for it's age <statement>, this Aberfeldy doesn't seem to be a strong swimmer. This is a real shame, because the composition of the nose actually seems to improve with a few drops of the wet stuff, but it's just ends up too dang weak!

Taste Neat:

Tangy Peat, Lemon Pepper, Salted Lemons, Porridge, Sawdust, Woody Vanilla, Mashed Bananas, White Peaches, Orange Creamsicle.

Peat with salt and pepper on a relatively fresh and grainy spirit back. Nothing to write home about, but inoffensive despite the perceived immaturity. Thin in body.

Taste Water:

Tangy Peat, Sea Salt, Barrel Char/Ash (that's been sitting around a while), Musty Lemon.

Becomes too thin. More or less one dimensional.

Finish:

Char/Ash, Salt, Woodsmoke, Oak Tannins (mild).

Shortish finish, dominated mostly be ashy bitterness.

Conclusion:

Decent neat, but avoid adding water.

An inexpensive peaty dram that's ok, but probably not something I will purchase again.

Rating: 73/100

This whisky boasts a 12 year old age statement, but it's a young 12 in my estimation. Basically, I think pretty tired casks were used because this drinks more like an 8 year old whisky from mostly first or second fill barrels. So, there isn't a lot of vanilla or sweetness here. The spirit itself isn't particularly remarkable either. It's certainly not bad, but is mostly just grainy without much fruitiness. I'm guessing a quick fermentation time with aggressive yeast is the reason for this, which makes sense, as Aberfeldy is a workhorse for the Dewar's line. Luckily, the salty peat character gives this whisky a surprisingly coastal/Islay (well, Bruichladdich) feel which makes it a worthwhile dram. In the ~35 USD category, you can find better whiskies (Tomatin 12, Glenfiddich 12, Old Pulteney 12), but the peat sets it a bit apart in that price range.

Thrilled to be back and reviewing again! I hope you'll all bear with me as I bring my nose and palate back into their old form :-)

Josh
