Thanks for the review! I love this stuff, so rich and full of life. Bullet points should just be an asterisk followed by a single space... not sure what's going wrong there. Perhaps try double spacing between paragraphs (Which leaves a single line between each).

If you enjoyed this you will certainly also enjoy the Macallan CS, and also the Glenfarclas 105 which are both legendary cask strength sherry bombs.



Hi everyone.  I was intending to participate in the community review but couldn?t get a hold of Aberlour 12 NCF.  So I picked up Aberlour A?Bunadh instead and thought I would post a review.

Speyside / 60.2% ABV / NCF / $78

Batch 45

Color: A deep, rich amber.

Nose: Heavy with sherry, reminding me of the syrupy raisin glaze you?d put on a cake.  Some oak.  Brown sugar.  Angel food cake.  Baby powder, interestingly enough. Plain meringue cookies.

Taste: Really explodes on the palate.  Earthy sherry.  Golden raisin.  Figs.  Spiced rum.  Toffee and some cocoa.  Perhaps a touch of praline.  Water turns up the sweetness here.

Finish: Rises up into an intense but pleasant burn that sticks with you.  PG tips black tea.  Ginger and orange.  Cocoa.  Mint.  Water dials down the burn and brings an interesting dark chocolate bitterness to the finish.

Overall: The nose, taste, and finish of Aberlour A?Bunadh are like a three-punch combination from a champion boxer.  The warmth and spiciness will keep me coming back to this one.

93/100 - Would Buy Again?  Yes.



No preamble this time, let's get to it!

Aberlour A'bunadh Batch 45 (Cask Strength, NCF, NAS): Speyside Single Malt Scotch Whiskey; 60.2% ABV. Bottle Price: $75.99 (around $80 with tax) from a St. Petersburg, FL Total Wine.

Consumed neat in a tulip snifter.

Score: 90/100. This only solidifies the awesomeness of Aberlour in my eyes. Not the end-all, be-all whiskey I was expecting, but still a stunner nonetheless.



Great stuff.  I've got a bottle of batch 45 open right now and I'm enjoying it immensely.  The cinnamon reminds me a lot of a bourbon I like: Old Weller 107.

Nice review!



Review #2 :

Aberlour 12 Double Cask, ABV 43%, $43

Color: Golden Amber

Nose: Fruity, Slightly Floral, Hints of sherry

Taste: Sweet flavors of fruit which turn to sherry and spice

Finish: Warm and Sweet Tasting. Short.

Score: 83/100

Notes: A great introduction to what sherried scotch can offer. This one could be somewhat hit or miss for me depending on the day I was drinking it, but overall, I thought this was still decent scotch.

Review #3:
Aberlour A'bundadh Batch #45, ABV 60.2%, $67

Color: Dark, Blood Red in the bottle; Dark Amber in glass

Nose: Strong Sherry and Dried Fruit

Taste: Cherries, Chocolate, Sherry, A lot of spice. There is some burn, but I can't tell if it's from the spice or from the high alcohol content.
Finish: Creamy and spicy. Warm. Very smooth for the ABV. The spice lingers for a long time and travels throughout my body. Breathing continues to provide the taste of spice. 

Score: 95/100

Notes: This one blew me away. Of everything I've tried so far, this is my favorite. This scotch provides an incredible experience. I hadn't had anything like this before and I haven't since. It's fantastic.

Comparing the two:
I liked the 12 Double Cask, but the A'bundadh is something else. While I would buy the 12 again, I'd rather spend a little extra to get the A'bundadh. At some point, I'll need to try out the 12 NCF and the 16, but until then, the A'bundadh is going to be my sherried scotch of choice.



For a few years now, I would have called myself a ?Rum drinker?, but that probably wasn?t totally accurate. I liked a few decent rums, and I could stand them neat. Recently I started trying other types of alcohol, and absolutely fell in love with Scotch. In my explorations I eventually stumbled across sherry Scotch (not all that hard to do really). Needless to say from the review pool, I am now a huge fan of Sherry Cask Scotches. I have a large ?to get? list, and many of my purchases (and my future reviews) moving forward are going to involve broadening my selection and trying styles I have only had once or never at all. I feel I have reached a point now where my reviews may actually mean something, so here we go!

Tasting Method: .5 oz at a time, and 2.5oz total for each review. I revisited it across 5 nights to get the best perspective that wasn't tainted from one day.

Aberlour A?bunadh

Alcohol Content: 60.2%

Region: Speyside, Scotland

Nose: Rich and deep with a nice spiciness accompanied by toffee and sweet fruits. It smells intense!

Taste: Dang, the smell was spot on. It starts with an intense burst of flavor featuring deep spice, cinnamon, sweet fruits (a lot), a bit of toffee and a delightful oak note that hit you all at once like a giant wave. I didn?t find that it evolved much into anything, it largely punched me in the tongue with all of its profile at once. Awesome!

Finish: The aftertaste keeps the main notes going but allows the oak to shine through, which was really nice. The toffee and fruits come out a bit more as things mellow out in your mouth, however this has a kickin? hot spice that lingers on the tongue (which the other Aberlour?s didn?t have as much). A great mouth feel. The taste lasts 3-4 minutes plus.

Rating: 94/100

Summary: I loved this, and found that this is what I had wanted the other Aberlour?s to be. It managed to keep that nice fruity complexity while offering some ?kick/burn in the taste buds? spiciness. My only complaint is that its flavor profile is pretty upfront, and it would be nice if it evolved through the flavors rather than hitting you all at once (for instance, I had a hard time picking out any fruits in particular because it?s so busy). Easily worth the money, and something that will always be on my shelf (please don?t discontinue this Aberlour crosses fingers).

----------------------



I intend to try it sometime in the future, the 18 year is really well price compared to other distilleries. It probably won't be one of my next purchases because I can branch out to more unique experiences, but I really enjoy the Aberlour and would like to try the 16/18 for sure. 

Can't go wrong with the A'bundah, go for it!



Just got me a bottle from the #47 batch of A'bunadh.

It's really nice. I prefer it with a splash of water (about half oz) for each 1.5. Helps bring out the flavours and cut a bit of the alcohol burn.



Aberlour A'bunadh
3/8/14
60.2% ABV
Friend's bottle
Highland
Neat and with water - Glencairn

Ambiance:
Inaugural whiskey club

Color:
Rich, dark amber

Nose:
Sherry, huge brown sugar up front and then gives way to some floral, rosewater, and dried fruit notes. Surprisingly no burn on the nose with such high alcohol

Taste:
Warming, sherry, Marcona almonds and marzipan, cherry, woody oak

Finish:
Strong and hot. lingering but not overly so, more sherry and chocolate cherries.

Notes:
Quite good. This was my first sherry bomb (I tried to avoid saying it took my "sherry" but alas I did it in the parenthetical).  Very drinkable for 60%.  I love the cherry and almond flavor, amaretto-y.  I added some water to it and it killed, much better neat.

Overall:
83 

Aberlour A'bunadh, Batch 45, 60.2% abv

Price: $64.99 

Environment: Sitting on my couch on the coldest day of the year thinking about what movie to watch at 5:45 in the afternoon.  It's 11 degrees outside right now and the storm just cleared us with over a foot of snow; I spent a good part of the day shoveling.  The temperatures are dropping rapidly and supposed to hit -8 tonight.  I need something warm.  

Color/Visual: Poured into a Glencairn glass.  Amber in color, thick, syrupy and viscous.  The color is almost indistinguishable from my bottle of Knob Creek Single Barrel 120 Proof Bourbon.    

Nose: I hate to say the obvious, but the first two things that I smell are sherry and alcohol.  It needed to sit another 5 minutes.  I smell candied almonds, plums, currant, passionfruit, ruby red grapefruit, peaches and ice-cream, butter and sweetness with a medicinal quality. There is a ton going on in this nose.  

Palate: The first sip gives me a burning bouquet of flowers.  It's refreshing and light, but I am very aware of the proof.  I said I wanted a sherry bomb and well, wow, it certainly is that.  As it sits in the glass and I take a few more sips, I start to get more interesting flavors.  I taste homemade fruitcake with strong marzipan, plum and candied almond influences; all strong flavors.  Cherries, anise, lemons, pineapple and passionfruit linger and dance on the tongue with a distinctive and quite interesting butter flavor.  

Finish: What's heavy up front turns more delicate in the finish.  Here is where I taste sherry.  It's a surprising end to a such a gruff whisky up front.  It's long, but also contains quite a bit of subtle complexity.  The softer fruit flavors in the palate linger the longest.  

Overall: Not for the faint of heart, but this is a beautiful and excellent if not terribly subtle representation of the sherry bomb with a surprising finish.  Definitely warmed me up on a cold winter night.  I had a second dram to make sure it was still great; t'was.  I did add a little water during the first tasting and found that the water toned down the heat, but also ran over some of the more subtle fruit flavors in the mid-palate.  I'd rather let this sit for 5-10 minutes and drink it neat than add water to it.  This is a love/hate kind of whisky and I love it.  

Score: 91/100



Excellent review. 

I will always have this stocked in the winter! Just feels right. 



I like it, but not as much as Macallan Cask Strength, Glenfarclas 105, or Glendronach 15 Revival. 

It has a nice fruitiness that is more front and center than the three listed above, but less spice and decadence. 



These reviews were done blind, but I have had both bottles before and I was able to tell which was which based on the tasting.

#1: Aberlour A?bunadh Batch 45 (60.2% abv) ($80)

Color: amber

Nose: strong sherry, vanilla, dried fruit, oak, chocolate

Taste: sherry, dried fruit, chocolate, honey, raisins

Finish: cherry, chocolate, oak, vanilla

Overall: 92/100

The color of this one was amber, almost orange. The nose is great with an overpowering sherry smell giving way to strong vanilla notes. There is dried fruit, oak, and chocolate-covered behind everything. In the mouth, this one is excellent with a strong sherry flavor leading the way again. Personally, I am big sherry fan so the more sherry flavor the better. Behind the sherry is some more dried fruits, especially raisins. The chocolate on the nose delivers like a rich Belgian dark chocolate filled with sherry cream filling. There is also some honey adding to the sweetness. The finish is good, but could be better for a cask strength offering. The finish is chocolate-covered cherries again, with oak and vanilla in the background. There is also something there that I can?t exactly place my finger, almost like dry wood. This is great dram that I do not get tired of. I am almost positive this is A?bunadh because I have had this bottle before. I would be shocked if this were the Glenfarclas. It looks like I guessed right.

#2 : Glenfarclas 105 (60% abv) ($80)

Color: golden orange

Nose: sherry, fruity, vanilla, raisins, cereal

Taste: plums, raisins, sherry, chocolate, pears

Finish: long, rich, cherry, chocolate, sherry, raisins

Overall: 90/100

The color of this one is lighter than the other one, it is more orange than amber. The nose on this one is a little disappointing compare to the last one. The sherry notes aren?t nearly as strong, but that makes the background notes easier to detect. The rest of the nose is very fruity with sweet raisins. There is also vanilla present, but not as much as the last. In the mouth, my first impression is that it is a lot oilier than the last one. This one is not as intense as the last one with lighter fruit flavors being equally balanced with the sherry. There is also a chocolate that the rich mouthfeel compliments. The finish is where this one really shines. This finish is much better than the last one. It is long and rich and just does not die down. There are chocolate covered cherries, like with the last one except it does not die and gets more rich and creamy. I think the last one was better on the nose and in the mouth, but this one is a much better finish. Overall, I like the other one a little better due to the other elements, but I would buy a bottle of either when I have a chance. I think this is Glenfarclas, and it looks like it is.



Aberlour A'bunadh Batch 45

60.2% ABV

~$75

Happy thanksgiving eve to all (including those of you not in the US), this seems like the perfect time to drink a sherry bomb.  

Nose: Fortified wine, spice, dark dried fruits, heavy raisin flavor.  Some light salt. 

Taste: Sweet wine, dark fruits, raisins.  Sherry, winter spices. 

Finish: Sweet wine and warmth.  Christmas (is that a flavor?), oak. 

Notes: You have to be in the right mood to drink this, otherwise I find the sweetness a bit overwhelming.  Cold dreary days definitely put me in the right mood, or as a nice dessert drink.  I like it, but I'm not sure I'm going to pick up another bottle soon. 

Score: 86/100



Is this your first review?  If so, want some flair?

If not, want some flair?

Either way, please remember to archive.



Hello again Scotchit!

Since I reviewed one Scotch in the Semi-finals of March Madness, I thought it was a good excuse to review the other! Again a huge thank you to /u/Whisky_Lads for the sample.

Nose: Fig rolls, candied fruits,  dark caramel, vanilla, raisins and herbs. The overpowering sherry and high alcohol gives this a certain musty complexity also.

Palate: Almond marzipan, treacle, mince pies and butterscotch are accompanied by the lighter floral honey, cinnamon and anise. Really burns this one, even with water.

Finish: Something gamy going on here, not far from pheasant. Orange marmalade, red apples and pears along with cinnamon, white pepper and sweet paprika.

Really enjoyed this, especially the finish. Being a sherry drinker I can usually tell the type of sherry cask used but this one baffled me for some reason (it?s oloroso if you?re wondering). I?ll certainly be buying a bottle of this sometime soon, too good to only try once! For the price you really can?t go wrong either! (90/100)



Really love this, taste isn't as sweet as most sherry bombs, and the finish is spectacular... I ranted about it a lot in my review.

Glad you like it!



If you like that you have to try this http://www.masterofmalt.com/whiskies/powers-12yo-pot-still-john-lanes-release/?srh=1 

not 100% sherry but it's phenomenal!! 
