Distiller: Knockdhu

Age: 12 years

ABV: 43%

Price: $44

Eye: 
Gold

Nose:
Tropical leaning fruit, malt, caramel, vanilla, butterscotch and a light smokiness blend with some hints of grass, damp earth, red licorice, gummy candy and spice. There?s also an odd note of canned pineapple that comes and goes that throws me off a bit. It?s complicated for sure, but I can?t say I?m wild about it.

Palate:
Ambiguous fruit, caramel, malt and spice pretty much sum up the flavor. There are some light notes of smoke, mandarin oranges, ash, vanilla bean and maraschino cherries, but they?re not consistent. Sometimes I pick them up, sometimes I don?t. It?s an oddly amorphic flavor.

Finish:
Medium in length and made up of fruit, malt, spice and ash.

Balance, Body & Feel:
I can?t call it balanced, but I also can?t quite say why. That amorphism is throwing me off, but it has a medium body and a cold smooth feel to it.

Score:
82/100

Overall:
Ancnoc 12 is in that ?it?s not really good, but it?s not really bad either? kind of area. It?s not something I?m clambering to buy (a bigger bottle of at least), but if it were in the $35-$40 range it's the kind of thing I could see myself grabbing on my way to a friend?s house for an afternoon of board games. A utilitarian whisky that?s more for those times when you don?t need something amazing in your glass, you just need something that isn?t horrible.



I've heard AnCnoc makes a lovely summer dram, and it's a lovely summer day so what better way to enjoy it than by trying two new expressions up on my rooftop deck. Thanks to /u/Mr_dkatz for the sample of the 12 year and /u/thatguy142 for the sample of the 16 year. 

AnCnoc 12

Strength: 43%

Color: Pale gold. 

Nose: There's a beautifully fragrant nose off the bat. White wine, peaches, lemonade, and light malt from flaky pastries. The nose calms down after breathing some. Very summery. 

Palate: Light and mildly sweet. Pound cake and freshly baked white bread. Lemon tarts. 

Finish: Mild, but longer lasting than I expected from a light and low proof 12 year. It's only as it fades away that some faint oaky notes appear. 

Summary: This is delightful! It's like a more flavorful and expressive Glenkinchie. For my $40, I'd take this over Glenkinchie 12 any day. It would make a nice addition to my current collection as a light dram. I did notice that this malt became a little muted as I sipped on it. I'm not inclined to let it breath too much in the future, and it loses a point or two for not hanging around as long as I'd like. 

Score: 86/100 

AnCnoc 16

Strength: 46%

Color: It might be a trick of the light through a different glass, but this looks slightly lighter than the 12. Straw gold. 

Nose: The nose is more reserved, perhaps this one does need time to open up. Floral notes are predominant, spring flowers, light lemony citrus, and ocean air. Given time to breath, tart apples and pears come forward. 

Palate: A little less sweet and more dry and tart than the 12. The malt flavors are stronger and heavier, like multigrain bread. Salty sea air and faint brine. 

Finish: Warmer and stronger than it's younger sibling. The oak is more noticeable, with lemon and pie crust. Some bitter tannins arrive at the very end. 

Summary: The 16 is certainly more nuanced and complex than the 12, but this is one of those cases where I think it works against it. Perhaps it just isn't giving me as much of the summery vibe as the 12. In either case, it's still a very nice dram, but not as unique perhaps. 

Score: 85/100 

Scotch Reviews #36 & 37

Whisky Reviews #52 & 53



It's pricey indeed and I've never spent that much on a bottle.  There are plenty of amazing NAS bottles for less.  But 200? for a 35 year old ain't bad.  Here's one I spotted for ?2000

http://imgur.com/yOjrSV3



To be fair, there's plenty of people who would pay that for a 37 year old Lagavulin, considering their core range is pretty fucking limited.

I wouldn't, but I'm not that big of a Lagavulin fan.



Greetings Scotchit! I've currently got 2 on-going review series running: the "Wait, What?" series and the "New Distilleries!" series. This review belongs mostly to the latter (and only a little to the former), as it's my first review (or even sample) of anCnoc (or Knockdhu) ever and anCnoc isn't that well known, even among Scotch enthusiasts (reddbdbdbdb notwithstanding).

As is usual, I know very little about anCnoc - I even had to Google to see if it was a Highland or Speyside. Thank you to /u/superyeti for providing both the sample and the Glencairn that it's being consumed out of!

Let's get to the review.

anCnoc 12
Highland, 40% ABV, chillfiltered?, E150 (thanks Germany!), 50ml sample from /u/superyeti

Nose: Strong lemons. Creamy malt. Warm, toasted oak. Slight spice, white pepper. Unripe honeydew. Green grapes.

A highly traditional Highland nose, here. Malty, citrusy sweetness with a slight oaky spice to give it some edge. This is very, very similar to the Glenmorangie Original. Not unpleasant, but not special, either.

Taste: Decently creamy mouthfeel. Creamy vanilla. More citrus and malt. Fruity melons and maybe apples. Toasted oak and spice. Hint of pepper. Hint of oaky tannins.

Not much development here. Less sour than the nose, with more malty sweetness, but very much the same notes than on the nose. It's still pleasant and drinkable, and I actually prefer this to the Glenmorangie, where I got much, much more bitterness.

Finish: Brief. Oaky. Some vanilla. Light lemons. Sweet malt. Lingering light pepperiness.

It's alright here, but not setting the world (or my mouth) on fire. Definitely feels a bit too short, I'd really like to have seen this at 45-48%. 

Summary: A very classic (and classy) Highland malt. However, I actually liked yesterday's Tullibardine Sovereign more, largely due to the much creamier mouthfeel. 

That said, this is still a classy, tasty and drinkable Highland malt, and the Tullibardine goes for about 30% more than the anCnoc, so if this is available near you, maybe you should give it a shot.

Regardless, thank you for the sample, /u/superyeti, strike another off my list of unreviewed distilleries!

Score: 81/100
Better than Glenmorangie Original.

Buy Again? Very possibly, if it ever becomes available locally.



anCnoc 12, 40% ABV

Nose: Malty and sweet, wood spice and vanillin, citric and tannic. Lemon; both juice and rind.

Taste: Light, watery and somewhat smooth. Honey, pear and grapefruit. Sweet and tart.

Finish: Lemon, oak and pepper. Medium, spicy  and a slightly bitter. 

It's 41?C right now and this is a fitting dram for this weather. I like the nose a lot and the taste is not bad, but the finish is boring and forgettable. This is a decent light, summery scotch but I prefer more robust flavours.

If anyone has the 16 and is willing to send a sample to Australia, send me a PM!

76/100

Thanks for reading.



The first time I tried this I found the sweetness to be a bit syruppy, almost sickly. Had it again recently and while it still had that uncomplicated sweetness, this time I found that "Honey, pear and grapefruit" taste came back in small bursts with a bit of a liquorice tail, which I quite liked. I usually like a tart/citrus kick, more than is evident here. 

Overall a great light drop, enjoyable for what it is. Also, doesn't affect taste but I'm a big fan of the bottle shape. "Great looking dram" may not be a very good compliment, but I like its style.



I usually paired anCnoc with the Iwan & Ries house cigars that I picked up, since I got anCnoc in Chicago back in October, just outside of I&R, and took it to I&R's cigar lounge with me to smoke. Decided to stick with that model for the whole bottle, and it served me well.

The house cigars were a Striped Bass - Beliocio. They were very smokable and I have a few left in my humidor. I'm more of a Macanudo or Fuentes guy, although my boss is getting me hooked on Acid's.

On a scotch note, I've found that the Macanudo flavor tends to compliment my two favorite scotches - Balvenie 17 Single Barrel and Aberlour 16 - so perfectly to me that it leaves me smiling to the bottom of the glass and the end of the stick.



Thanks to /u/PeatReek for the sample!  My first time getting to taste and AnCnoc.  Aged for 12 years in primarily ex-Bourbon casks, though there may be some sherry casks in the mix as well.  I couldn't quite tell from my google search.  No added color and un-chill filtered.

?

Nose:  Lots of peaches.  Granny Smith apples.  A bit of raspberry and ginger.

Palate:  Medium to light weight.  Very smooth and fruit forward.  Lots of peaches, lemons, strawberries, apples, and mangos.  A hint of peat as well.

Finish:  Medium finish.  Mostly stays all about the fruit.  Lemons and peaches.  A bit of spice from the oak.  

Score: 86/100

?

Surprisingly very enjoyable.  I had no real expectations for this.  But its quite delicious.  Seems simple at first, but as I take my time with it, I notice more and more.  Actually much more complex than I thought on first sip.  This one seems like a great deal for the price.



Yeah agreed, the first few drams of this I felt were rather underwhelming; however as its opened up and the level has went down, its got better and better. I left it for an hour the other week sitting in the glass with a dash of water, and it sweetened up beautifully. 

Very refreshing and delicious dram.



AnCnoc 12

Highlands, 40%

color: straw yellow

nose: floral, vanilla, cookies, apple ice cream, concrete, orange zest, hazelnuts, lemon drops, honey

taste: bubble-gum, peaches, malt, sweet oak, hint of artificial melon flavor, wild strawberries

finish: soft

Nice and easy drinkable. Not very complex or challenging. A summer dram. Quite good for its price.

84/100



Distilled at the Knockdhu distillery. The owners (Inver House) decided to sell this under the name AnCnoc to avoid confusion with the Knockando distillery. Inver House also owns the Balblair, Balmenach, and Pulteney distilleries.

43% abv. No statement about coloring, so I assume it has e150.

Nose Caramel apples, raw ginger, clove, lots of vanilla, honey, pear and lime. The ginger is a tad aggressive, and adds a nice spicy counter to the sweetness. A little breathing brings out a very nice roasted nut aroma. 

Taste - Starts on a honey/vanilla/ginger note, picking up some of the apple and pear flavor on the development. The ginger again very nicely balances out the sweetness. A slight creaminess comes in with a little time. 

Finish  Clove, honey, cinnamon, and a bit of lemon. Finish is slightly spicy and stays towards the front of the palate. 

This whisky is a great value, for about $5 more than Glenfiddich 12 you get lots more character with the increased presence the spices have. That said, it has a lot of the same tasting notes I'd give 'fiddich 12, or several other "introductory" single malts, but this is about the best of that honey/vanilla/light green fruit introductory single malt profile.

85/100



Appearance:  straw-like colour? almost urinesque haha. I like the classic look of the packaging too. thin, quick legs.  

Nose: VERY fruity nose, citrusy, licorice, floral notes. Very pleasant

Taste: lots of fruit, malty, more citrus, rather hot actually for 43%. Nutty, honey, little bit of spice. 

Finish: pretty warm in the throat, nutty and fairly sweet. Kind of short and underwhelming

Rating: 83/100

not bad. Not great. But a solid, pleasant summer dram. Glad I got a chance to taste it so I can contribute to the community review in July!



Got this sample from FineDramsTM with a load of anothers. Just wanted to try something from this distillery and the most basic offering seemed like a good way to check out the distillery character.

AnCnoc 12 40%

Colour: Light Gold

Body: Light/Medium

Nose: Fresh and citrus-y. Vanilla, some pastry, lots of lemon, lemon juice, a little grapefruit, lime. A bit of coffee and chocolate too.

Taste: Gentle arrival, developing very lemony, lemon juice, lemon zest, then some pastry and vanilla, some ginger spice and white pepper (A little youth?), a little oak with chocolate and coffee into the finish.

Finish: Medium length. Oak, ginger and white pepper with a little coffee.

I found this to be pretty average I?m afraid. I?d like to try older versions at a higher strength though.

65/100



Network Average: 75.4

Best Score: 91

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



So as you may be able to tell from my flair, I play Dungeons and Dragons. Specifically, I Game Master it. Yeah, I'm one of THOSE nerds (not the ones running outside though... that requires a lot more fitness and planning than I can muster).

In my games, my players have figured out that names that are hard to pronounce are a bad idea, as I'll butcher then or Francophone them or just hurt them... unless their African in nature, but that's just a fluke. I'm horrible at pronunciation.

And that's why I had to purchase a dram of anCnoc 12 from Masters of Malt, brought over in pristine condition by a friend from the UK. Because if I ever attempted to pronounce anCnoc, I'd choke on my own tongue and, worse yet, the bartender would laugh at me and think I don't know whisky from water.

For those of you wondering, it's pronounced "a-nock". It's made by Knockdhu, which is pronounced "Fuck it I give up". Made in Aberdeenshire, aged in American and Spanish oak barrels, used to mature either bourbon or sherry, and aged in a constant stable temperature.

Let's see what the opening volley from the unspeakable distillery is called.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Region: Highland

Abv: 40%

Nose: Honey, apple, sour pear, dry sand, yeast, seltzer water, light oak

There's a Gaelic proverb that goes "Cha deoch-sl?int, i gun a tr?ghadh". And I think that sums this up.

Wait, not everyone know the unpronounceable. It smells like white wine. Like a lighter white wine, in fact, or a champagne in a normal wine glass.

Taste: Weak caramel, oak, green apple, smoke, dust, dark chocolate, salt

It's kinda weak. Chan fhiach cuirm gun a c?mhradh. Completely. 

It also tastes like dusty chocolate apples. Not really my thing. Not overly bitter, just dusty. Like licking old people. Or at least what I imagine that would taste like.... Moving on...

Finish: Oak, apple juice, bitters, pear, dust, cumin, bay leaf, dry

Dry finish, some herbal notes that are new and nice. Granted, as the old saying goes, Eiridh tonn air uisge balbh.

Meh.

Conclusion: It has some sweet notes, but honestly, Ge milis a? mhil, c? dh?imlicheadh o bh?rr dri i? It's just not really my "thing". I'm sure there's people who would enjoy the subtle malt, but in the end, it's mostly light sweet notes, some oak, off putting notes, and too weak to buy. I'm not hating it, but I'm not also not buying it.

71/100

Scotch review #152, Highland review #22



Not sure if you know Scottish Gaelic or you're just typing drunk...   

Either way, thank you for the review. I've been wanting to get my hands on some anCnoc, but I'm not a big fan of Highlands, so this was quite helpful (from the parts I understood).



Not sure if you know Scottish Gaelic or you're just typing drunk...

It's not really Gaelic if you're 100% sober, right?

Kidding aside, I looked up some interesting quotes, threw them in to my review, given my inability to say the Scotch's name.

From what I've had, there are much better Highlands out there, you just have to look. In (hopefully) 3 weeks time, I should be putting up a review of almost everything from Tomatin that I could get my hands on, so look out for it.



I tried some of this recently after seeing Ralfy recommend it so much. I  felt kinda disappointed afterwards. There's stuff going on but its not really all that interesting. Sweet and sour with a dusty, chemical/mineral touch.

It opened up with time so I wonder if left to oxidise in the bottle for a while it would become a little better.



First off, excellent reference. Only M. Night movie ever worth seeing.

And yeah, I'll be Samuel L. Jackson. He works to be evil, none of this falling bass ackwards into power shit.

Also this was ordered from Master's of Malt, so it's the UK version.



Wow!  Previous reviews have all seemed pretty positive.  I have an unopened bottle that I have been saving to open once the damn snow melts.  I may have to crack it open when spring officially hits!

Previous reviewers have mentioned lemon and citrus - none of that for you?  

Perhaps the first sip critically hit your taste buds and you missed your saving throw?  :)



Oddly enough, no citrus for me. Which is funny, as I typically over note citrus. It was more sour pear for me than a lemon smell.

Granted the finish had bitter and apple flavours, and that is close to a citrus flavour.

Nah, I passed my saving roll on this one, and reviewed it with a bite-claw-claw-wing-tail hit. I'm just not the biggest dry, lighter dram kinda guy.