Ardbeg Alligator, Islay single malt, ABV 51.2%, non chill filtered, no e150a

Nose: Held away a little from the nose icing sugar, lemongrass, up close sharp lemon zest and orange sauce, creamy, vanilla, fresh Greek yoghurt, charcoal/coal dust, cloves, slight ginger, waves of sweet peat, linen and faint lilacs with vegetable oil in the background

Palate: Initial big hit of lemon and cream, very sweet, cr?me brulee, becomes malty, caramel, walnuts, gingernut biscuits, a little briny, burnt grilled bacon, medium earthy peat, with air Limoncello, slight white wine vinegar and cider, runny honey mouthfeel

Finish: Maple syrup, a little bitter and dry with tart cooking apples, a touch yeasty, burnt wholemeal toast, peppermint at the back of the tongue, big lovely warm peat smoke & maritime aftertaste like I've been chewing on a seaweed/driftwood/compost bonfire, goes down with a moderately spicy short burn. 

Light on the nose and quite lemony mixed in with that characteristic dairy/creamy quality and a sprinkle of charcoal and spices. There's a fresh and Spring-like smell in here too. On the palate it's quite dessert-esque, a lemon cheesecake garnished with mild nuts and brandy snaps. The peat is more on a par with Ardbeg 10 in intensity and there's still charred pork meat but it offset by persistent tangy fruity flavour. The finish has a lot of unbalanced tastes going on but that peaty/wood smoke/boggy/seaside send off is unique. Not as succulent or mellow as the Uigeadail, shares a little sharpness of the 10 and the citric lemon dominance overshadows a lot of the dram, but it's sweet, interesting and oh so smooth - you could drink this all night. 

88/100



I agree with this. 

In my brief time here I have noticed that we are sometimes critical but our scale is skewed towards higher scores. There are problems with this. Here I usually see something less than 85 as being bad. I think the mean of scores are in the upper 80's to lower 90's. 

I am not a mod or anything but I wouldn't mind having a more clear scale and try to get the mean and median scores closer to 70-75. Maybe something to come up with as a subreddit for the sidebar.  



Fantastic.

Your review makes me yearn for my bottle of Uigeadail at home. Definitely a comforting dram that can make the longest of days melt away with the illusion of being near a campfire roasting marshmallows in the city.



Well it's been nearly two months since my last reviews.  I've been a bit busy fixing up a house which lends itself to drinking more beer and less whisky.  Had a backlog of samples to get through and figured I'd start with a bang:  

Review # 20 - Ardbeg Alligator

Hello Scotchit! This review is about a week in the making. I started my tasting and notes then got interrupted but finally decided to burn the midnight oil and get this review out! I spent about 45 on photos and 45 minutes on the nosing & tasting.

Overview: A big shout and thanks to /u/Dworgi for convincing me to pull the trigger on this bottle even though it was out of my budget. I have no regrets and was actually shaking with some adrenaline in the shop the day I went in to purchase it. It's my most expensive bottle purchase to date. I'm going to assume this bottle has been sitting on the shelf here since it's release in 2011.

"Lurking within is an ARDBEG of hidden depths. Extremely fierce charring of the oak cask gives ARDBEG ALLIGATOR a unique spicy bite that'll catch you unawares. Charge your glass with a splash of water and roll it around and around in your jaws!" - The back label

Ardbeg Alligator Islay Single Malt - ABV51.2%

Price $139.99 + tax - 750ml bottle

Devoured Neat

Dram: http://i.imgur.com/0aHl0ZN.jpg
Room: http://i.imgur.com/3zLJsRQ.jpg  

Color: Pale Straw, Muscat - Very slow to start tears

Nose: Tobacco Smoke, Like sticking your face in a Freshly Extinguished Bonfire, Savory BBQ Smoke, Wet Delicious Peat, Heavy Charred Oak, Dark Chocolate Cacao, Ginger, Blood Orange, Smoked Bacon, Slow roasted Caramelized Pork, Ginger and Caramel.

Body: Heavy Oily and Chewy

Palate:  Savory sweetness traversing into Hot Bonfire & Smoke, Marinated Grilled Red Meat, Thick Tangy Mandarin, Savory BBQ Sauce, Blood Orange, Coffee, Tobacco, Chocolate and Leather. Thick and Chewy mouth feel - Just awesome! - Did I mention BBQ flavors yet? Pork, falling off the bone.

Finish:  Sooty and Sweet, Blasting Peat fire Smoke, Espresso Bean, Medium-Long in length, Amazing tingling going on. Heat on the tongue lingers enjoyably like a hot pepper.

Summary
If this stuff wasn't so hard to come by it would make a hell of a BBQ or Beef Jerky marinade. I spent 20 minutes nosing this, it's really a great nose and the smokiest I've sniffed yet. This stuff is so complex it makes my thoughts melt away as all my brain power is being used to try and decipher just what in the hell is going on in my mouth. I'm a huge fan of BBQ and Pulled Pork and I'm definitely going to whip up a batch of that and pair it with this dram. I imagine if I was on death row I'd request slow roasted pork and a bottle of Alligator for my last meal. Yup. 

Would I buy this again?
Yes

Score

95/100
I spent a little more time on the photos to try and detail everything as best I could, Cheers



Great review! This is one of my favourite Ardbegs, I have an extra bottle stashed away to enjoy in a few years.

Also, I paid less than you (just barely). As an Australian, I've never seen this happen before and it makes me happy.



Thanks UncleTobys, yeah I've really enjoyed Ardbeg so far. Uigeadail and Alligator; next up I have Galileo and will be trying to acquire a bottle of Ardbog on June 1st. Eventually get a bottle of Corryvrecken and if the planets align a taste of Supernova.

I happily paid this price after seeing that it was $150 on MoM and discontinued.



Oh man I completely agree, I was very luck to have found this gem in a local shop. There is only one guy in town that is privately owned and has any seriousness about his Scotch Whisky stock.

It took me two visits to his shop and some research online to realize what I had in front of me. I had to take cash out of my savings to fund the bottle which I've since replaced. I feel lucky about it.



Awesome, so glad that you liked it. 

I was really scared that I'd put you up to buying a $150+ bottle that you'd hate. 

This is my holy grail when going to Scotland in a few months. I need to find a bottle or I'll be really, really sad. 



Scotland! That should be amazing. Or you were secretly hoping I would hate it and ship  you the bottle! :D

You totally need to update us on your Scotland trip when time permits, that would be awesome. /r/scotch with feet on the peat.



I will try to take pictures and write something about the trip.

Also, you beat me to 20. I need to catch up. This weekend perhaps.



Thanks Chaz! - Yeah, I wanted to save this one for #20 since it's my rarest bottle. Oh man, totally southern-style dinner influence. 

Once I realized this stuff was discontinued I jumped on it right away. So glad I did.



Such a tough question for me but without too much waxing poetically; my gut reaction goes straight to Alligator. They're both so good!

It's basically down to... Savory Smokey BBQ or Savory Peaty Berries



Hello Scotchit! Today i'm reviewing Ardbeg Alligator. The sample is from a swap with /u/TOModera. I have been looking forward to trying one of the many Ardbeg special releases. Here we go, on to the review. Slainte!    

Ardbeg Alligator
51.2% ABV, NCF, NCA, 60 ml sample         

Nose Full blown peat. Campfire. Lots of toasted oak. Old leather. Horse radish. A bit of dry cacao. Salty nuttiness. Jammy sweetness. Pine sap.
Oak and peat explosion. Fantastic.

Palate Oily and creamy. Lots of toasted oak. Big peat. Ash. Salt. A bit of cayenne pepper. Dry woodiness.
Huge flavour explosion. Lots of oak, just a tad overpowering. 

Finish Creamy drying oak. Earthy peat. A bit of salt.
The oak lingers for long.

This is one hell a peaty oak monster. The oak is a little overpowering at times. I'd actually say that this is more oaky than the Laphroaig QC. This is a stellar release from Ardbeg. The only thing i have to criticize is the over oakiness, and the slight lack of complexity from the palate and finish. 

Overall, 87/100  

Buy again? Nah, I think I'll pass. 



I live in the third world so, unlikely. 

I fly a lot for work, so I get my fix buying bottles on every duty free I go through.



Review #30 

Color: light amber

Nose: vinegar, sea water, smoke, peat, lemons

Taste: sherry, smoke, peat, salty, spice, honey, chocolate

Finish: moderate duration of numbing spice and camp fire

Conclusion: I love this dram. The 1st sip confused me. It smelled like an Islay but the 1st sip tasted of sherry. The succeeding sips started to be more Islay in character. This seems like a single malt. 43 - 46%. Very similar to Caol Ila 12.

Score: 88/100




No wonder the mystery dram 3 was so wonderful. I kinda find it over rated now though. I expected better. I didn't like the bruichladdich that much... in my defense most of the Johnny Blacks I've had lately have thisTalisker dominant taste. :|



So, I picked up some samples of Galileo and Alligator, thanks to /u/Rhetoriclese and /u/TOModera. My buddy just picked up the Ardbeg 10, so I said "Hey! Let's do a vertical." So we all sat around and got drunk. I also had a bottle of Stone's Enjoy By double IPA that we drank aftwards, just to be completely certain our tongues would be completely worthless. It's another important note that I actually own none of these bottles. So my cabinet overfloweth with whisky that STILL needs to be reviewed. I'll get there one day.

Ardbeg Alligator 51.20 %, $200
Nose: Mud, florals, fruit, Big Red gum
Taste: turpentine, brine, honey, dirt
Finish: Black pepper, peat
Rating: 86/100
Final Thoughts: I was unaware at the time, that this was aged in extra charred barrels. That definitely explains all the pepper and cinnamon I was getting. For 51% this had a hell of a bite. Alligator, indeed.

Ardbeg Alligator

.' .'   _.-_.-      __.-~ ~
 . `. _.     _ _...---~ ~~
 ~--.....--~  ~

Ardbeg time. The Alligator is a NAS bottling from the famous islay distillery, but internet rumblings suggest it's around 10years old.
The special thing about the Alligator is that it was finished(?) in heavily charred casks. Bottled at cask strength with 51.2% vol.

Anyway my tasting impressions:

Nose: Peat, smoke, peat-sweetness, ash and charred oak, a bit maritime, vanilla, honey

Mouth: Ash- massive, peaty, creamy?

Finish: overpowering ash, peatsweetness, smoke, peat

Comments: Suprisingly tame and sweet. I'd describe it as an Ardbeg 10 with an volcano erruption where all the ashes rained into your glass. Unfortunately the ashes are too strong and overpowering some of the more delicate flavors.
It's interesting but the 10 is just better.

87 points (value/bias/etc are not a factor)

Costs around 80? if you can still find it.



thats for the review, was considering a purchase of this but sounds like i'm better of sticking with my Uigeadail and Corryvrecken

edit: jim murray gave this a similar review, as have several others on this board.  A solid whisky in the high 80s but not as good as their other bottlings



Greetings, r/scotch! Rmill3r here with some whisky reviews, and my second vertical of all time. Plus, it's Friday, so what are you all sipping on this weekend? This is a vertical I felt needed to be done but I didn't necessarily want to do. During my time on /r/scotch I haven't been quiet about my disdain for Ardbeg's excessive marketing tactics or my disappointment of its flagship 10-year-old whisky. I received a number of samples recently from /u/Trexid and /u/Baronscarpia, though, so I decided to sit down and give this distillery a broad and in-depth look . .  . 

Ardbeg Alligator, Islay Single Malt Scotch whisky; 51.2% abv; aged in heavily charred barrels, cracked and resembling alligator skin; $139.99 for a 750mL bottle, according to /u/Trexid but not available at all in my area; enjoyed a neat dram

Color: Light amber, melted gold

Nosing: Not too disimilar from the 10-year-old nose, except for BBQ, charred oak in droves, zesty, spicy, vanilla, lemon rind, ginger, and cloves. Really spicy and peppery overall.

Tasting: Peat heavy, spicy, ashy, a shot of dark espresso, and chilli peppers

Finish: Dry, spicy, burnt cripsy meat, fairly long, overly charred oak, and rubber tires

Score: 77/100

This stuff is certainly more intriguing than Ardbeg 10 but there's too much spice and the excessive charring of the oak barrels makes it feel like your licking it off a burning piece of wood. Not my cup of tea at all. (Sorry, /u/Dworgi.)




Great vertical rmill3r - Your honesty here is commendable and I can totally see the Ardbeg spirit not being everyone's cup of tea. 

I don't get the same feel about the marketing though. I'm genuinely entertained by it and appreciate their extra effort to connect with their consumers. Ardbeg Day every year around the world looks like a ton of fun to me. I'm hoping to attend the one in San Fran next year hopefully along side a few other Scotchiteers. /u/Allumina and /u/Ardbeg_head - wrote an awesome piece about digging up bottles of Ardbeg on an Island earlier this year.

I try and stay as level headed as I can about stuff like that, not to go to far in one direction of like or dislike. Poor /u/dworgi - his beloved Alligator! :) - I love the stuff as well. yumms.



Is this known as my gimmick? 

I guess it is...






ahh, that's neat! Did you work on the promotional videos? Those are cool and I like the editing. I'm not saying anything bad about people who work there, I'm sure they're great and all, but on a personal level, the whole braggadocious attitude that Ardbeg carries just doesn't work with me :/ 

In my opinion, Ardbeg to the whisky world is like how Apple is to the tech industry, or Blizzard to the video game industry. 

Oh well! They got me with Uig...bastards...



Well this review became a complete farce when you gave Alligator a 77. I can't trust you for opinions on anything anymore. 

I have only one thing to say to you: You, sir, are wrong. 

PS: Good vertical. I still hate you though.



Great stuff! I really enjoyed reading this review, and I completely agree with what you said. 

The Oog is the standout, and it is genuinely very good, but everything else is rather one dimensional to me. I personally much prefer Highland Park or Bunnahabhain or even Laphroaig (18) because they offer a balance of sweet and sour, and salty, and spicy, and smoke (like the Oog does to great success)

I'd be interested to see what you think of any of the 18 year old varieties of the ones I mentioned above. 



Tried them all and Uig is the only one I bought a bottle of too.  Alligator is overpriced collector bait, the others are just OK.  Uig is delicious and I'll probably have another when its empty.  

You might also like Talisker and Lagavulin distillers editions.



Evening folks! Another review brought to you courtesy of my swap with Texacer. This one has sat on my wishlist for quite some time and i'd really like to thank Tex for the opportunity to cross it off.

Color - Yellowish amber, quite bright

Nose - Smoky, peaty brute at first. Zesty alcohol burn mixed with asian spices. Earthy roasted meats and sugary sweets.

Palate - Moves quick, coats thick. Peat and bright spices. Sterile ashes. Sugary sweet balancing in wonderful harmony.

Finish - Combination of a sweet, charred and carmelized marshmallow over a campfire plus all of the warming smoke that comes with it. Lovely, this finish lasts forever.

93/100

I like Lagavulin better by just a tad I think, and I definitely like Uigeadail more. I'm really just happy I got to try it once though!



Abracadabra BAM! http://i.imgur.com/KLWbV.jpg

Shit it's a roadster now sorry. 1 year only commercial headlights and 28 only deck lid handle though. YOU'VE JUST BEEN OVERHAULED SON.



Uigedail is a great whisky -- I love it.  But Alligator has this fascinating complexity that I think goes way beyond Uigedail.  Alligator was also about 50% more expensive when it was available, though, so I'd be hard-pressed to say it's a better value.  

They're both smoky drams, but with Alligator I have this remarkable taste of sitting around a campfire and eating meat cooked over the fire.  There's this earthiness, and floral character in the forest, and I taste that in the whisky.  Uigedail is a bit more medicinal, with iodine balancing the salt air.  

I think I've had every "modern" Ardbeg, except the Galileo (but including Ardbeg Day).  Ignoring prices, my ranking at the top would be:

Alligator
Supernova 2010
Corryvreckan
Uigedail
Ardbeg Day
Supernova 2009
...and then the rest.  Rollercoaster would be dead last.    



The tough thing, of course, is that the bottles are mostly sold out, and they run about $125.  It's rare to see it on a bar's bottle list, and it's about $30 a pour, when you do. 

Do you live in or travel to DC?  It'd be my pleasure to pour you one. 



Ardbeg Alligator / 51.2% ABV / NCF

tasted neat, then with bottled water

Another Arbeg beastie, this 2011 reptile is 60% 10yr / 40% 10yo matured in heavily charred bourbon barrels.  The burnt barrels look like alligator hide, and the packaging has a raised texture hide pattern on the front.  I'm reviewing the UK 70cl bottle here, let's see how she does!

It's like eating Jean Georges' chicken--it's amazing, but it's still chicken.  I love the concept of overchar, and the marketing is brilliant.  A limited release worth tasting if you run into it, but less robust and memorable than Uigeadail.  If you have to take the edge off an Ardbeg 10yr, better to do it with a NAS sherry.  However, fans of extreme smokiness will love this.  It's delicious and drinkable, but once you get over the initial novelty of the flavour profile, lacking significant depth.

Rating: 89/100 

13th review

Homepage | Reviews | Buy @ Wine-Searcher



Taste: is hurting my fake OCD.  

great stuff, is it suppose to just be the one run do you know?  they need to stop doing that.  I want another supernova or rollercoaster.
