So I was at a bar yesterday with my team from work, and while I was mulling over what whisky I should order to convince my friend that Blue Label isn't the best Scotch, I spotted a bottle of Ardbog (which in itself is tricky, because the bottle design doesn't jump out at you). I hadn't had it, so my fate was sealed. My notes from my single dram follow.

Review #24: Ardbeg Ardbog
Islay, NAS, 52.1%

Nose: smoke, new wood, pine sap, dark fruits, vanilla

The nose on this is very fresh and very dry. There's a lot of assorted wood notes coming through like tree sap and freshly-cut wood, but there's also a bit of underlying sweetness in the form of smoked fruits, if that makes any sense. I don't think anyone actually smokes plums, but if they did, it would smell something like this.

Taste: sour, smoke, brine, dark fruit, dark syrup, dry

The mouthfeel on this was actually quite watery - not as full-bodied as I'd expect based on the nose. Adding some water (half a teaspoon, in my case), weakened the body even more, so I wouldn't recommend it. Overall, it's a sort of sweet and sour experience, with salt and smoke lurking in the background. 

Finish: long, smoky, nutty, vanilla, dry

This really leaves your mouth dry. Adding some water adds some vanilla and makes it less dry. The nuttiness was more of a hazelnut or almond note than peanuts. 

Conclusion: This is one of the driest Islays I've ever had, but overall the whole Manzanilla cask influence is positive. There's more depth to this than the standard 10, but it's not as mouth-wateringly delicious as the Uigeadail or as smoky as the Corryvreckan. It's a different take on the Ardbeg spirit, but it's really rather good. 

Score: 90/100

Recommended? Yes, I feel pretty confident in recommending this. I'll certainly be picking up a bottle while at the Ardbeg distillery (in 2 weeks!).



Great review. I personally love ardbog and perhaps my only criticism is that it tends to be so damn close to the uigeadail.

If you so happen to live in the US and need a bottle, Marketview Liquor has a few left iirc. http://www.marketviewliquor.com/catalog/



Ardbeg Ardbog, 52.1% ABV

Nose: Briny, earthy peat. Dried muscat grapes. Sour citrusy notes. Leather and old books. Marmalade. Brown sugar and vanilla beans. Rye Sourdough. Lavender, anise and bay leaves. Black tea. Peppery, woody and smoky.

Taste: Full bodied and lively. Apple cider. Dried cranberries and apricots. Fruity peatsmoke. Tart grape skin. Fresh ginger and chilli powder. Brown sugar and vanilla. Sweetened black tea. Dry winey tannins. Medicinal, leathery and smoky. Cigarette tar and ash. Flinty, salty mineral notes. Lightly peppered with some coffee bitterness. Black liquorice.

Finish: Spicy, tannic oak. Earthy dried herbs and tea leaves. Tart berries and candied orange. Fruity peat and bonfire smoke. Ashy with a bit of nicotine sting. Smoky charcoal. Rich winey notes reminiscent of a big spicy shiraz from the Barossa Valley. Long and dry with faint rubbery notes.

Great Ardbeg. Very winey and dry. Also quite peaty, ashy and smoky. If you like these things you'd love this.

92/100

Review 157



I regret not getting a bottle, because I figured the Ardbeg distillery would have some. 

They didn't, and I'm still kind of pissed about it.



In honor of having a night off from kids and responsibilities, I'm going to try a bunch of Ardbegs and review them.  Fuck yes.

?

Next up, we have a special release from 2013 - Ardbog.

?

Thanks to /u/mikeczyz for the sample!  Ardbog was released with no age statement and aged in a combination of bourbon as well as some Manzanilla sherry casks.  Bottled at 52.1%

?

Nose:  Lots of sea salt.  Seaweed.  Leather.  Raisins.  Iodine.  So much seaweed!

Palate:  Medium rich and thick mouthfeel.  Vanilla cake frosting.  Angel food cake.  Cardamom.  Leather.  Seaweed.  More sea salt.

Finish:  Medium long finish.  Very salty.  Seaweed.  Billows of smoke.  A bit of medicinal iodine but not as much as the 10.

Score: 91/100

Absolutely excellent stuff.  Almost as good as the Uigeadail.  Which is a strange thing for a distillery - when the core releases are so bloody good that their best special releases can't quite match them.  That said, this is extrememly unique.  I love the seaweed/marine aspect of this.  If it were readily available, I'd love to have a bottle next to my Uigeadail and Corryvreckan.  That would make for an ultimate trifecta of Sweet, Smokey, and Salty.

?

apologies if I mislead you, but Ardbog DOES have an age statement.  Back of the bottle states "slumbered undisturbed in rare ex-Manzanilla sherry casks, all for at least ten long years."

someone recently sent me a sample of Airigh Nam Beist.  Your review very much makes me excited for it!



Boom, 3 for 3 baby! Huge thanks to /u/PeatReek for the sample. After first trying, and not horribly liking, Ardbeg 10yr, I?ve grown to appreciate the brand quite a bit more thanks to Uigeadail, Corryvreckan, and even Perpetuum. Having read some great reviews of Ardbog, I sought this one out for a taste!

?

Ardbeg Ardbog ? 52.1%

?

I?m estimating the secondary price at $150 and basing the value on that estimate. This is a solid pour with a very nice peat profile, but it?s just lacking complexity. Even if I could get a bottle of this for $100, I?d still probably rather spend that on a Longrow RED or something of that sort. Thanks for letting me cross this off my want-list, /u/PeatReek!



Nice review, I'm a fan of the 'Bog.  

I dig your value ratings, may steal that for my future reviews.   

Cheers



Greetings Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  The Ardbeg Rocket came through Milwaukee yesterday and I took some pictures which I don't have with me right now at work but it was super lame.  More after the review. I did snag a bottle of Ardbeg Ardbog 104.2 proof and quite enjoyed it.

very good.  I'm happy I grabbed a bottle for $95 after tax.  The event at Discount Liquor was very lame.  two girls in Ardbeg Track Suits stood around like Vanna Whites and knew nothing about Ardbeg.  One of them was more interested in my Windows8phone than anything... ooh look shiny.  Not that they weren't all nice but it wasnt really an event.  more like here's a fake rocket thingy that just sits there outside the liquor store and hey Ardbeg is cool maybe.  I was pretty much the only person there who knew about it.   Another guy who was around with his wife said he didnt drink scotch but took a picture with the "hot chicks" anyway.  What a waste of time and a let down.  

But i did get a cool gift set with a $10 off coupon for Ardbeg 10 with that nice glass pictured above.  more photos of it on /r/whiskyporn.  

the Bog didn't let me down.  Galileo did and I was worried but this stuff is solid good. 

93/100



It's a good bottle. I'd want a bottle. 

Fucking Ardbeg, not selling their own special releases at the distillery...



Sorry about the disappointing hot chicks, we'll see if we can find something better next time.

In other news, is there any reason to upgrade (based on price) from Oog to Bog?



we'll see if we can find something better next time

????



Not on price, no. On uniqueness, perhaps. This is much drier than Uigeadail, IMO. 

This is strictly limited, though.



Hi Scotchit! Easter means whisky weekend, so here's another double feature:

Ardbeg Dark Cove

Islay, 46.5%

Aged in a combination of ex-sherry and ex-bourbon casks.

color: amber

nose: peat smoke, caramel, vanilla, honey, sesame, salty sea notes, coco, hint of machine room

taste: ash, peanuts, metal, black pepper, peat, white mint, flour

finish: pepper, smoke, mint, grilled spices, walnuts, tobacco

Full nose, sweet and salty, nice. Quite thin on the palate though and slightly metallic. Spicy finish.

Promising nose, but then rather disappointing.

74/100

Ardbeg Ardbog

Islay, 52.1%

Aged in a combination of Bourbon and Manzanilla Sherry casks. Thanks /u/TOModera for this.

color: auburn

nose: smoke, tree gum, leather, tar, mocha, caramel, walnuts, black tea

taste: rock, campfire smoke, nutty, honey, peppermint, apple ice cream, dark chocolate, cloves

finish: green apples, grill smoke, coffee beans, warming

It's good. Sweet and smoky with some spice. More mature and noticeable cask influence compared to the Dark Cove.

86/100



I do like my peaty whiskies. So obviously Ardbeg is one of my favourite distilleries (let's just ignore the little hiccup that was perpetuum and hope it doesn't happen again). A few weeks ago one of the big whisky bloggers here in Israel (This is his blog) said he'd be having a tasting of Ardbeg special releases, so I was there like a shot. The tasting was held at a Bavarian pub, one of the owners is a big whisky fan and gourmet chef, so there was some excellent food too.

Ardbeg Ardbog

Nose: Dirty, sulphury sherry. Mineral peat. Red fruits. Goji berries. Sticky wood. Vanilla. Peanuts. Caramel pudding 

Palate:  Salty nuts. Sweet peat. Dry sherry and dry wood. Treacle.

Finish:  Long. Dry wood and wood smoke with some hints of sherry. 

Rating: 10/10 (Got lost in this for a while)

Ardbeg Auriverdes

Nose: Ash. Toffee. Bitter coffee. Good tobacco smoke. 

Palate:  Salty toffee. Mineral peat. Dry wood. Cinnamon. 

Finish:  Long. Very salty. Dry wood. Cinnamon. 

Rating: 8/10

So apparently Ardbeg makes mistakes every so often (side-eyeing Galileo), but on the whole they make some solid stuff. I really liked the Ardbog, kind of like the Oogie kicked up a notch. The 10 was actually also one of my favourites as I just really like the regular Ardbeg profile. To be honest if they'd just release the 3 core expressions they'd do great. Awesome evening all in all.



Ardbog

This one was Ardbeg?s special release from 2013. Partially matured in Manzanilla casks, and bottled at cask strength. Ardbog is meant for Ardbeg to ?celebrate our peaty roots in the marshy wetlands of Islay.?
Matured at least ten long years, per the back label. 52.1% abv. Non chill filtered, no coloring added.

Nose - Dreamsicles (I guess the manzanilla casks impart something of an orangey note, as this is a new one for Ardbeg), lots of ashy smoke, black and white pepper, maple bacon, oiled leather, portabellas. Gets earthier with breathing.

Taste - Starts off much earthier than the nose suggested, and really lives up to the Ardbog name. Smoking a cigar, what I imagine oiled leather would taste like, hints of orange liqueur, black and white pepper, black tea, mushrooms, burnt bacon.  Quite dry and earthy. Pleasantly viscous, but not extremely full bodied.

Finish - Lots of black and white pepper, chipotle powder, black tea, tobacco, a faint reminder of oranges, and oiled leather. As with other Ardbegs, the spices here have a way of slowly sinking in to the palate.

I like this, but I think I like Ardbeg?s standard lineup better. There?s lots of smoke and complexity, but the balance with this one isn?t quite there ? it?s too far skewed towards the earthy side of things. I like the new notes the Manzanilla casks add to Ardbeg, but it?s not quite enough to make this one a standout.

83/100

Edited for formatting.



so my house closes in a couple of days, everything is packed up (as you can see from the piles in the background), I don?t have a couch or bed to sleep on tonight, and I realized I need to post 4 more reviews to hit my goal of 100 before the sale closes! Fortunatley, I have an Ardbeg review already in hand thanks to the tasting tower at the LCBO, and i have 2 more Ardbegs unreviewed at home. so below is an Ardbeg triple review to get me to 99. 

next up is a dram I got in a swap with /u/TOModera as part of the secret santa swap this past Christmas. Excited to try another from this delicious distillery.

Appearance:  very similar to Uig. Dark and rich looking. Thinner legs than Uig. 

Nose: more iodine, less smoke than uig. Pretty sweet smelling actually. 

Taste: again a lot less smoke, a ton more iodine and peat. It really is quite swampy too. there are some crazy sweet notes I just can't place. Some kind of candy. 

Finish: holy medicinal batman! 

Rating: 91/100

this is a really nice dram but it's got much less depth than Uigeadail. I do love the heavy medicinal qualities so I'm scoring it highly, but it's not quite as good as some other Ardbegs I've had. 

haha you don't owe me a thing. as you said, the secondary market then for FR125 wasn't what it is now! you got something for cheaper than market and so did I!

glad i finally got around to reviewing the bottle as it's half empty now. felt fitting to get it done at this time of huge change in my life!

really is a fantastic community and i'm grateful to be a part of it



Ardbeg.

Now, when that name is put up anywhere, just by itself, we gush over it here at /r/Scotch like a specialty porn star.

And it's not really a surprise. They make amazing stuff. It's peaty, it's finished well, and they even have NAS product that we enjoy. 

So when I decided to go forth with this limited edition review bonanza, I didn't know how it would turn out. Would I end up fanboying all over the place? Would my credibility take another Tobermory-like hit? Am I insane for wondering if I had any left to begin with?

Also, have I beaten the multireview format to death? Hopefully not, this is the first of many I have planned for the next while.

Well, we'd have to see.

Ardbeg distillery is off a small cove on the south coast of Islay. Before 1815, it was a smugglers paradise. However as they croaked, seeing themselves in peat smoke, they became the distillery that little brewers wanna be like, and because their so good, we're on our knees in the night says prayers in the street light.

Let's get this out of the way first:

Region: Islay

Starting off, thanks to /u/texacer for the swap of this dram. I know it took a lot to finally agree to swap with me.

The 2014 Limited Edition release for Ardbeg Day was Ardbeg Auriverdes. Aged in American white oak ex-Bourbon barrels, shipped over from (big surprise) the US, the heads removed and replaced with new American oak heads made for them under a secret toasting regime. 

Does "Secret Toasting Regime" sound like what pot heads do before coming to school?

Anyway, this is a cask strength Ardbeg NAS that is blended with the above and Ardbeg from 1st and 2nd fill Bourbon barrels.

Oh, and it's named for Green and Gold. Because honestly, finding the above was pulling teeth, but I was told about 3000 times that the name means green and gold and that's the colours of Brasil.

Fuck sake people, we're whisky drinkers, not kindergartners. I don't need to be told about football.

Anyway, let's see how this year's experiment turned out.

Price: N/A in Ontario... yet.

Abv: 49.9%

Colour: Light pee

Nose: Sweet peat, pear, licorice, nutmeg, campfire

Starts out with a sweeter peat than I'm used to, and a little less strong than past cask strength Ardbeg's I've had. Each flavour is easy to pick out and individual. The Bourbon casks have added a vanilla sweetness that has blended into it.

However I wish it was stronger.

Taste: Strawberry, peat, anise, butter, salami, peanut oil, cocoa

The peat takes second fiddle here. Overall it has some interesting flavours, yet they are so weak my dead grandparents could take it in a fight. And win.

Don't get me wrong; this could be interesting without the peat, yet it's not stepping up, and is quite watery.

Finish: Mushroom, chocolate, peanut, caramel, salty, sesame, curry powder.... smoke

Finally, something I can sink my teeth into. A lot of Canadian-Chinese flavours here, and a nice amount of earth mixed in too. Lasts a moderate amount of time as well.

Conclusion: So... what is this, really? Let's take a step away, pretend there's no peat, and pretend this isn't Ardbeg.

It had a weak nose, with some elements that tried. The flavour wasn't strong enough to really evoke the complexity that a NAS Special edition whisky should have. The finish was earthy, sweet, complex, and moderate. 

Thus, this isn't a bad whisky, however there's better peated and unpeated whisky out there.

77/100

So back in 2012, when we were young but not so much kids, Ardbeg sent some new-make spirit up into space to age the first ever inter-stellar whisky.

And I couldn't be happier. That's just cool, by itself.

This isn't that whisky. Let's get that RIGHT out of the way. This is just a tribute. They couldn't release the Greatest inter-stellar whisky in the world, no no. This is a Tribute, oh, to the Greatest inter-stellar whisky in the world.

And the peculiar thing is this my friends: the whisky they made in that fateful never ending night? It doesn't actually taste anything like this whisky

And holy shit, it actually has an age and easy to find information. What a crazy time 2012 was. 

Ardbog. I mean, I think they are just getting lazy. It just has 1 name. They just changed one letter.

This was the special edition for 2013 Ardbeg Day. It's aged in a combination of Manzanilla sherry casks and ex-Bourbon casks.

Sounds familiar, right? Too a certain Oog? Well, except it has less Abv, only came out once, and has a silly name.

I mean, what, am I suppose to drink it totally emotionless except for my heart, mud flowed up my pajamas, and totally confusing all the passing piranhas?

What kinda insane person would do that? Sitting alone in a boggy marsh? No, no, you make no sense Ardbeg, let's just drink this.

Abv: 52.1%

Colour: Bronze

Nose: Peat, sour pear, nutmeg, ginger, leather, the tide is out and the harbour's not clean

Yeah, this tastes dirty. Not dirty enough to not put in my mouth, however if you met me when I was 19, you'd know that doesn't really mean much.

I am so lucky I don't have the HerpasyphagohnAIDS.

Anyway, it's interesting. There's some spicy in the harbour mess too, which is nice.

Taste: Bog water, metal, cinnamon tea, herbal liquor, licorice, black pipe candy, birch sap

Yes I fell in the bog as a child, playing in them. No, I didn't enjoy it.

Eventually this tries to act like the Alligator, what with the herbal liquour elements, however it doesn't really change from Anise in the end. And some dry, sweet sap.

The bog water and metallic eventually die down enough to enjoy this.

Finish: Brine, smoke, cedar, burnt sugar, sour funk, pepper, dry cider, birch sap

There's elements of good and bad here. It's hard to tell if I enjoy it. Eventually the burnt elements leave and this tastes good, however that first couple swallows...

Well, I didn't mention I was a dirty teen.

Conclusion: I don't really know what to say. It smells like a nice Ardbeg drank at the Pier. The taste starts bad and then apologizes and is nice. The finish starts off burnt and like a young, not okay Bourbon and then ends in this dry, smokey whisky.

It's interesting, that's what I'll say

81/100



Scotch reviews #187-190, Islay reviews #42-45

Other Ardbeg reviews:

Ardbeg 10

Ardbeg Uigeadail 

Ardbeg Corryvreckan

Ardbeg Blasda

Ardbeg Supernova 2010

Ardbeg 1977

Ardbeg 27 year 1973 Old Malt Cask Douglas Laing

Ardbeg 1967 32 year Old Malt Cask Douglas Laing
