And for my second review of the night, tasted a few days ago, is Ardbeg's other, other NAS release - Corryvreckan.

Ardbeg Corryvreckan, NAS, 57.1%, ?80

Nose: melted butter, oranges, campfire smoke, spice, oaky vanilla

A very pleasant, if a bit odd, nose. The buttery notes are a first for me in a whisky, and took a bit of time to really enjoy. Now, I find it quite pleasant and rather unique. The familiar Ardbeg peat smoke comes up, along with some citrus, spice and vanilla. 

Taste: smoke, spice, butter, grilled meat, lemons, charred oak

Rather similar to a smokier Alligator. The butter notes and charred oak come through, but not as much as the pure campfire smoke goodness we expect from Ardbeg.

Finish: long and tingly - peat, vanilla, spicy, charcoal, dry bitterness

Spicy, long and smokey. Sweet vanilla and coal, which finishes in a dry bitterness not unfamiliar for veterans of Ardbeg 10. 

Conclusion: This is no Uigeadail or Alligator, but it's still definitely Islay royalty. The nose is unique, and everything else about it is well-rounded and better put together than the peat explosion of the 10-year-old. Up there in my top 10, but on the verge of getting knocked off. 

Score: 91/100



It's very hot today and I have nothing to do so I thought I'd have a crack at writing some reviews in air-conditioned comfort. I've enjoyed drinking whisky for many years, but I've never taken tasting notes -- this is my first time and I have no idea what I'm doing. Suggestions on improving the quality of my reviews would be greatly appreciated.

Ardbeg Corryvreckan, 57.1% ABV

Colour: Amber.

Nose: Citrus rind, vanilla, clove, star anise, caramel, peat smoke.

Taste: Oily and sweet,  toasted bread, honey, butter, pepper, slightly fruity.

Finish: Some tartness, vanilla, tobacco smoke,  liquorice, coriander, a bit grassy. Long and complex.

I love this dram! The nose, taste and finish combine to make a Super Scotch a la Captain Planet and the Planeteers.

96/100

I have added the reviews to the archive and I will get back to you about the flair.

I'm trying to get the Ardbeg Day and a couple of the Supernovas but I'm not having much luck sourcing them locally. I've tried them both at a pub and they were fantastic!



Last I checked, my local VC has the Supernova (as of a week or two ago). I may pick up a bottle next I head in, and I could either send you a sample, or buy a full one on your behalf and post it down?

EDIT: Just noticed you've already tried it so sample wouldn't be necessary. Full bottle could still be arranged maybe.



I've not had either. Ardbeg puts out delicious whisky though.

Let me know whenever you want flair!



Reading that i really long for a bottle of Alligator, but i'm having trouble finding it for sale :(

I fully agree on the Ardbeg 10 conclusion by the way, decent Islay, but lacks the character of Talisker/Laphroaig



Ardbeg Corryvreckan - 57.1% ABV

Nose: Sea salt and peat.  Vanilla and toffee.

Palate: Thick, unctuous, rich.  Lot's of peat and smoke.  The mouthfeel is reminiscent of Octomore.  More fruit though, dark plumy stewed fruit, yet subtle.  And more vanilla and toffee.

Finish: This one just lasts forever... goes on and on.  Smoke and peat and salt.

Score: 93/100

I picked this up on the way home from work so I could try a new peated whisky.  Wow, this is such a kick in the teeth, but in a good way.  My favorite Ardbeg so far.  Wish I could taste it next to Airigh Nam Beist, as I think this could hold its own.  I love it!



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  Somehow I've let this one fall through the cracks.  I've reviewed Ardbeg 10, Ardbeg Alligator, Ardbeg Supvernova, Ardbeg Uigeadail, and Ardbeg Rollercoaster but have forgetton the Corryvreckan.  114.2 proof!  as I sit here watching the Wire in my leopard print snuggie, I figured I would make myself useful.  this Ardbeg takes it's name from the worlds second largest whirlpool.  

Ardbeg is a strong son of a gun.  its never timid or bland.  it'll grow hair on your chest (sorry Scotchitas).  I really enjoy this expression. Its butterier than the other Ardbeg I've had.  

91/100

I have about 5 reviews I'm sitting on right now, I'll get to posting soon.



You know, I'm excited to find this simply from your review alone. Not sure if this is a limited release or what-not. Had a chance to try the Alligator at a restaurant about a month ago--was good, but didn't really feel it was better than the more ubiquitous variants. 

I've made my way through the various Islay scotches and such, and for some reason keep gravitating back to Ardbeg (particularly the Uigeadail). This might sound blasphemous, but there's something more inviting about it (to me) than Laphroaig or Lagavulin (I still have both always in stock nonetheless). 

Perhaps, it's a sentimental thing since Ardbeg really was my entry point into the smokier stuff (excluding stuff like Highland Park). But, I can't shake the feeling that when I'm having a terrible day and just want to feel warm and good, I reach for the Ardbeg. 

/pointless non-sequitur



This sounds downright incredible as a fall / winter drink, maybe even spring. (pft like there's a particular season for scotch)

I haven't had very much experience with Ardbegs at all - I really need to get after some of these apparently.



Picked up a bottle at heathrow heading home for christmas.  It is absolutely fabulous.  I've never had a whiskey I can taste 15 minutes after drinking it. 

If you get a chance to try some, don't pass it up. 



Ardbeg Corryvreckan: a picture

FTFY



Ardbeg Corryvreckan

Islay, 57.1%

This Ardbeg is named after a big whirlpool in the North Atlantic. It is caused by the squeezing of the tide through the narrow Gulf of Corryvreckan between Jura and Scarba.

color: arylide yellow

nose: campfire smoke, family doctor practice, disinfectant, humid leaves, peat, leather, seaweed

taste: seaweed, peat, medicinal, linoleum, buttered toast, sweet muskmelon

finish: blueberries, campfire smoke, long, warms esophagus

Strong and intense and smokier than the Uigeadail. Intense peat in the nose, big sea notes in the taste and a comfortable hot burning. Once more a superb malt from Ardbeg.

90/100



But marsh fires smell so good to me!

But a lot of people agree with you. More for me!



Correct, I have not had the Ardbeg anything.  After suffering though selections from Talisker, Caol Ila, Lagavulin, Laphroaig and Bruichladdich, I have no need to try anything that is peated or from the Islay region in general given that even the unpeated Bruichladdich Rocks had strong medicinal notes.  Even the Dalwhinnie offended my taste buds.  I have no tolerance for trichlorophenol.

Regulars in the community are familiar with my hatred of peated whisky and we typically banter back and forth about it..



we typically banter back and forth about it

Such was my intent, although I more often lurk than provide banter (or tasting notes of any kind). I love peat and salty sea air, which brings me to the Isle of Islay generously stocking my liquor cabinet (along with far milder options, such as Armagnac).

p.s. Mine was not your solitary downvote, in case you are concerned! 



Thanks. I rated the Uigeadail slightly higher, but they're both excellent.

Uigeadail or Corryvreckan? Why not both? ;-)

Edit: If you haven't already tried an Ardbeg start with the 10yo. It's great as well and normally under $60.

Edit 2: ... if you're not in Canada...



Review #166

Got a sample off a friend for this. Everyone has told me to try this, I almost bought a bottle once but ended up with some Springbank 12 CS instead. Once this community review came up I figured I had to at least get hold of a sample. 

Aged 3 years*, 57.1%ABV, NCA, NCF

*For lack of age statement

Nose: Rubber. Mineral peat. Grassy peat. Old sea shells. Overripe apples. Lemon rind. Fennel. Mulch. A dentists room. Acacia sap. Charcoal. 

Palate: Thick tar. Earthy peat. Tobacco. Iodine. Woody vanilla. Honey. Salt. Pine cones. 

Finish: Long. Oily smoke. Lemons. Dirt. Brine. Rubber. Bitter coffee. Honey.

Rating for the averages: 87

Glad I finally got round to this, it's a good one. Lots of thick smoke. I do think I prefer the Uigeadail, but just a little bit, this is fine stuff.



So, I've posted a few reviews here so far, but haven't got to my obligatory ones of some of the core Ardbeg lineup. Time to get some of those, and then some, out of the way...

Ardbeg Corryvreckan

One of Ardbeg?s core lineup, along with the 10 year and Uigeadail. Named after a ?mysterious? whirlpool near Islay. Per the notes on The Whisky Exchange, this one is partly matured in ex-Burgundy casks.

NAS. 57.1% abv. Non-chill filtered/no color added.

Nose - Red grape juice, heavy smoke, bbq pork shoulder w/a sweet bbq sauce, plenty of black pepper, leather furniture, with some interesting spice notes ? cardamom and fennel seeds, I think  ? in the background. Big, smoky, complex, and thick, with some nice sweeter notes.

Taste - Sweet grapey notes, lots of smoke/ash, bbq pork shoulder in a KC style sauce again, black pepper, curry powder or some kind of spice frequently used in Indian cooking, some earthy leather and tobacco notes. Feel has a thick, almost oily viscosity to it.

Finish - Quite spicy ? black pepper, red pepper flakes, curry powder, while the smoky  grapey sweetness continues. Eventually, a really dark, earthy note comes along, that reminds of water that dried mushrooms have been steeped in. The finish keeps developing new flavors as it goes. The spicy notes have an interesting way of coming at you in a wave here, and really sinking in to the palate in a way that?s quite tasty.

I love the Corryvreckan ? the big, rich, smoky, complex flavors at work here are great, and I really like I get some notes with this one I rarely get elsewhere (e.g., some of the Indian spice notes). This one isn?t cheap for an NAS Scotch, but if all NAS Scotch was like this I don?t think many of us would be bitching about the NAS trend. If you like smoky Scotch you?ll love this.

93/100

App: A nice amber - e150? Doesn't smell like sherry, so I'll say probably

Nose: Oily vanilla & light peat, grapefruit peel & butterscotch, BBQ chicken on the back end. A little perfume as well, which is fine by this schnozz, very mellow no evidence of high proof

Palate: very light bodied, flowery sour peat. Salted caramel, some nice tingly peppery stuff

Finish: warm orange & clove. A bit short, but nice without any bitter notes

SumUp: Smells like a Bowmore, tastes like a Longrow/Talisker mix (vanilla   & pepper, respectively). I have no specific guess, gonna leave that scattershot description to increase my chance of claiming a hit. It's very nice, if not as aggressive as I normally prefer. Ok, I'll make a real guess, I think it's Bowmore just one I haven't had before - maybe an IB? Thanks for the enjoyable dram, to whichever Texan sent this! 85/100

Reveal: Talisker Distiller's Edition! I must be doing something right, when I reviewed a sample of this last year gave it 84/100 - consistency!



I'm sampling #11 from you.

G: Dark caramel, almost reddish.  so it's not an 80pf bottle of something unless there's caramel color added.

N: Smells like what I describe Lagavulin 16 as being -- smoked honey -- but better, more refined, not quite as smoky and more meaty and peaty.  Definitely a scotch, so I've got that going for me, which is nice.  Um... Lagavulin 12, maybe?  I'm getting hints of sherry cask finish, but not overpoweringly so on the nose -- it's not a manzanilla sherry bomb.  More sherry as it opens up.

P:  Yup.  High proof/cask strength definitely, green apple sherry exploding in my mouth.  I think this is a Lagavulin 12.  Some wood, but not a ton of it, well-integrated.

F: Warming.  Long, lingering.  Like boozy Rosh Hashanah (apples and honey).  Fuck, I could drink this forever.  I love scotch, scotchy scotch scotch.

O:  Love this.  Duh.  :-)  A-

So what are my other 2 Snowflakes?




So we've got a lovely line up today. Starting with the Oog and Corry, we'll then go back to when they were being run by the guys at Laphroaig. A 1996, a 1993 and a 1991.

A note on my scoring: People seem to be a bit confused by how low I score stuff, I assure you it's just me leaving room for upper end stuff but my scores don't really go above 90/91. So if you did want to convert to a 'normal' score you can just add +9 to it.

Ardbeg Corryvrekken 57.1%

Colour: Gold

Body: Full

Nose: Even more intense. Cough sweets, spicy and herbal, pine resin and needles, light toffee and fudge, lime tang, vanilla sweetness. Sweet sulphurous smoke, working kiln, engine oil, tar, earthy oiliness, 

Water: More sweetness, more vanilla, more sweet sulphur, sweet orange. More orange after a bit.

Taste: Big and intense. Creamy, oily, lots of peat smoke, cough sweets. Developing citrus sweetness with lemon and lots of lime and then building spicy tannins with lots of intense ginger and white pepper.

Water: Much softer arrival, building smoke and citrus- Lots of orange and lime but much more creamy. The oak kicks in after a few seconds with lots of spice- Ginger, nutmeg and white pepper with fresh oak.

Finish: Long length. Light peat smoke fades with spice staying- Oaky tannins and lime citrus.

Notes: Finished in virgin Limousine French oak casks. Not as complex as the Oog. 

82/100

Again, great whisky. Doesn't quite live up to it's brother though. Just a tad too spicy and a little less balanced. You'll notice my score has gone down since the community review because I'm bitter and twisted.

Onto the oldies, well, for Ardbeg standards. The next 3 are all IB's from the 1990's. 

This next one I bought online from Hard to Find Whisky, I got it for ?85 but it sold out in about an hour. 

Received a sample of this elusive Scotch from glinsvad. That dude knows how to swap, gave me an Islay care package. Go buy him a chocolate bar... unless he's lactose-intolerant, then go buy him a dram, he's awesome.

I really enjoy Ardbeg. I can honestly say it's my favourite Scotch maker. Wish they weren't so expensive here in Ontario, but that's what Scotch shopping on trips are for. 

I've been lucky enough to try quite a few of the great, different varieties that have come out of this distillery. Except Ardbeg Corryvreckan. It's always been one of the most elusive ones here. Until I traded with glinsvad. I am on the edge of my seat, and saved this one to try until last (others to be posted later). I couldn't wait to post this, and thus saved it for my 40th Scotch review. Let's dive in.

Region: Islay

Price: $183.95 (CAD) for 750ml... however I got mine in a swap.

Abv: 57.1%

Colour: Lemon juice and water, 50/50

Nose: Raisins, peat, lemon, smoke, licorice (red & black), lemon drops, butterscotch, candied bacon

There's this sweet smell at first, that draws you in, and then BAM, that great Ardbeg smokiness. It all reminded my wife and I of candied bacon. Very tasty.

Taste: Sweet basil, burn, anise, cinnamon hearts, habanero seeds, oak, pears, mace, pepper, spice cake, sour cream

There's a lot of heat here. Not so much that it's rough, but enough to get your attention. Very spicy. My wife had a sip and it evaporated before she could swallow (insert sex joke here). A few months ago I had a very nice Italian-inspired red wine that set my tastebuds on fire (in a good way), and this does the same thing. Very tasty.

Finish: Peat, smoked beef, lemon candy, cinnamon, orange, steak spice, rosemary, blackberry, peanuts, dry

There's a dryness to this one, almost too dry. It's tasty, and I'm nit picking, however I think I prefer the Oog's finish just a little bit better. The Oog was just a little bit longer. That being said, this has a great finish.

Conclusion: This is very, very tasty. And if it wasn't overpriced in Ontario, I'd have a bottle on hand all the time. I am so grateful to have finally tried it, and while it lost marks versus the Oog on the finish, it's still quite amazing. I'd recommend everyone have a dram of this at some point in their life.

90/100



I must concede that Uigeadail > Corryvreckan, but I think it's actually because the latter is less poignant overall. It's slightly more subtle yet still very distinct but it boggles the mind that it typically costs 50% more. Anyway, I'm glad you liked it.

Fun fact: There are nearly no lactose-intolerant Scandinavians because vikings and stuff.



I'm Finn--no problems with lactors.

Source: 23andme genetic testing.



Somewhat. Once you factor in gas, and how far you have to go to find what you want, the price savings fall apart.

Don't worry though; I'm visiting England/Scotland in September.



I know your pain bro, I spent most of my life in Canada.  Thought I was splashing out with a bottle of Balvenie.
Since moving to the UK, I have (whiskey knowledge)3

It's just that much cheaper and easier to get into over here.



Personally I don't like to add water to any Scotch, cask strength or not.

Here's what I'd recommend:

Try some of that dram. See how you like it. 

If it burns too much or you're overloaded, for your next dram, let it sit again and then add a few drops of water (1/4 tsp). See how you like that, and if you don't add a little more water.

If you did like it straight, however it may still be too strong, let it sit another 5-10 minutes. See if you like that. Still too strong? Go to 3.



little sips & lots of spit =]b...

:-)



Thanks for the review TOModera!  I've got a bottle but haven't opened it up yet (have had it at a bar though) - will be using it at some point to experiment w/ the ANB as per this link:

http://www.cooperedtot.com/2012/08/the-harmonic-resonance-of-peat-ardbeg.html 
