It's very hot today and I have nothing to do so I thought I'd have a crack at writing some reviews in air-conditioned comfort. I've enjoyed drinking whisky for many years, but I've never taken tasting notes -- this is my first time and I have no idea what I'm doing. Suggestions on improving the quality of my reviews would be greatly appreciated.

Ardbeg 10, 46% ABV

Colour: White wine.

Nose: Smoky, woody, a bit of citrus.

Taste: Dry and tart, tobacco smoke, a little earthy. Not much complexity.

Finish: Aniseed, herbal. Salt and pepper. Short but nice.

A decent everyday dram, but after tasting other Ardbeg expressions, it seems lacking. I'd rather have Laphroaig 10 or Talisker 10 which are about the same price and have a lot more character imho.

82/100

I fully agree on the Ardbeg 10 conclusion by the way, decent Islay, but lacks the character of Talisker/Laphroaig



First up is the classic standard bearer for Ardbeg - their 10 year.

?

Thanks to /u/amargolis for the sample!  This is the standard Ardbeg 10 year which I have yet to review though I've enjoyed innumerable times.   46% ABV.  Non-chill filtered and no artificial color.

?

Nose:  Seaweed.  Smoke.  Iodine.  Lemon.  Apple.  Vanilla.

Palate:  Medium slightly creamy mouthfeel.  Sweet initially.  Lots of vanilla.  Apples and pears.  Still some iodine.  Limes and lemons.  A bit of sea salt.

Finish:  Medium finish.  Some spice and lots of smoke come out.  Barbecue fire style smoke.  

Score: 87/100

Very good peated whisky.  This along with Port Charlotte 10 and Lagavulin 16 (fuck Laphroiag) are my standard bearers for entry level peated whisky.  Great value, very tasty, and remarkably consistent.

?




Ardbeg 10

(46%, NCF, ex-bourbon barrels)

?

Thanks to u/Lasidar for this sample!

?

Nose: Campfire smoke, lemon, crispy bacon, brine, peanuts, vanilla, hint of smoke roasted pears

Taste: Vanilla, oak, lemon, anise, roasted green tea, black pepper, wet rocks

Finish: Ash, rosemary, smoked ham, hint of green apple

?

The nose is bold, filled with savoury notes of smoke and bbq meaty goodness up front. Behind that, a light coastal breeze and sweeter notes of zesty lemon, nutty vanilla and smoke roasted pears. Creamy texture. Starts off in a combination of sweet and ashy notes on the palate, turning slightly bitter and mineral towards the end. The finish is big on ash with smoked meats, a hint of a pine-like herbal note and some tartness.      

Currently trying to make a dent in the accumulated samples in the cabinet and with a pile of Ardbeg calling out to me figured it would be good to start off with the base expression. A decent entry level OB offering, this is primarily dominated by bold ash/smoke and citrus flavours but has just enough nuances beyond that to save it from being one note over the course of the dram. 

?

84/100



Ardbeg 10  Non chill-filtered 92 proof, 

88/100





Islay, 46%

color: white wine

nose: peat, medicinal, campfire, tar, sea-weed, cinnamon, lemon, melon drops, artificial leather

taste: peat, sweet, ash, sea salt and sand (sea water), spicy, smoke, eucalyptus, raisins

finish: long, warm, smoky

Very rich with a nice balance between smoke and sweetness. Lacking a bit in complexity, so it's not 90+. 

89/100



Never done tasting notes for this one before, but I've enjoyed several bottles since I began my foray into the peated side of whisky. This is one of my (many) favourite whiskies, well made, well packaged, no caramel, NCF and just delicious. 

Nose: Leather, lots of leather the old and worn kind, peat deep and earthy, salt, iodine, socks.

Palate: Burned leather and earth, fresh rain, fancy salt, rich chocolate and coffee.

Finish: Blissfully long, deep and smoky with some nice earthy notes like after swallowing some dirt. 

Rating: 8/10

This is great stuff, it really makes me happy every time I have a glass.



Ardbeg 10

Another entry level Islay, this one from one of the 3 south shore distilleries (along with Lagavulin and Laphroaig) that did the most to make Islay?s reputation as being home to the peat monsters. This is the only age stated whisky in Ardbeg?s lineup. Thanks to /u/aliteralnoob for the sample.

10 years old, 46% abv. Non chill filtered/no coloring added, as with all Ardbegs.

Nose - Smoky, ashy, umami/meatiness right off the bat, like bark from a bbbq pork shoulder (mmmm, bbbq), what it smells like when I?m frying onions+olive oil+oregano+salt. A creamy, vanilla sweetness is there too, with a limey citrus note, ginger, and black pepper. Nice richness and depth.

Taste - Ashy smoke right away, tar, bark from a somewhat oversmoked bbq?d hunk of meat, lemon juice, vanilla, a bit of cumin, black pepper, pinot grigio, and ginger. Medium-light body, but quite full flavored.

Finish - Vanilla, black pepper, ginger root, citrus bite. Eventually a somewhat metallic taste comes in, though I wouldn?t say it detracts from the experience, as a bbq pork note does as well. The spices have an interesting way of slowly sinking in to my palate here (and lingering for a while), which I?ve noticed with other Ardbegs, and very much like.

As far as entry level smoky Islay?s go, this is one of your better options. I think the 46%+ncf has really helped make the flavors bigger and fuller, and added that very nice umami element. I got a bottle of this a couple years ago, and traded for a sample because my old document with tasting notes got lost and I didn?t want to spring for a whole bottle (my bunker is overflowing at the moment, woe is me), but now I might have to. For $45-$50, there are very few, if any better values in Scotch, if you like the smoky stuff.

89/100



As far as entry level smoky Islay?s go, this is one of your better options. 

I'm not sure how the phrase you reference here is so black and white, as Caol Ila (and any other whisky) is not specifically mentioned. Looking at my scores, yes, Ardbeg would be my recommendation, as it is.

That said, any review is highly subject to personal taste, as anyone reading these reviews should note, and yes, my preference between the two is Ardbeg, so I stand by everything I said. If anyone reading this is able to, though, I definitely recommend trying both and deciding for yourself.



First the story of how I got this bottle, then the review:
Fellow Redditor Woodvillan from my hometown of Hamilton posted in r/hamilton that he had bought a 1L bottle or Ardbeg at the duty free in Miami, but after trying a dram, didn't really enjoy it and was willing to sell it for $60. I came across the post minutes after he posted it and quickly sent a message saying I'd take it! equivalent volume of Ardbeg10 at the LCBO is ~$130. Many thanks to woodvillan! now to the review..

Appearance: extremely pale, like light apple juice. even lighter with 1.5 tsp of water.
Nose (neat): smoke is immediately apparent, saline, iodine, earthy peat
Nose (water): much less smoke, and a sweet aroma of citrus comes out. salt diminished but still there. other fruit like apples possibly
Mouthfeel: oily and thick, coats the tongue and throat. great burning on the tongue and top of mouth. less burn with water but still quite oily.
Taste (neat): iodine taste is strong, campfire smoke, some dried fruit apparent over time, peat flavour throughout, autumn leaves. lots of other flavours are in there that I just can't place. will have to save and revisit this bottle some time after I'm more attuned to flavours!
Taste (water): smoke and peat are diminished, but the iodine flavour is still quite strong. vanilla hints more apparent, along with some toffee. citrus flavour comes through over time. decay flavour becomes more pronounced from the peat.
Finish (neat): warm smoldering on the tongue and lips, smoke lingers in the nose and mouth for a long time. peat just doesn't go away.
Finish (water): doesn't last as long, but still a warm burning in the throat. some woody tastes linger. smoke dissipates more quickly.  

Taste: 68/75
Uniqueness: 4/5
Value: 14/15
Buy Again: 5/5 (especially at that price!)  

Rating: 91/100

edited for formatting









I submitted via the submission form after posting... hopefully it worked.  

how about Malt Minion?



Hi everyone,

I can?t believe I haven?t reviewed this one yet, as Ardbeg is one of my favourite whiskies. 

This 10 year old was my first try of Ardbeg too. I happened to be at a hotel bar that had it and it blew my mind. Later I bought a bottle, and actually it wasn?t as good as I remembered the dram in the bar being. Since then I have gone back to the hotel and tried it again and it must have been the same bottle, because it was amazing again.

So, I think batch differences must be in play. 

My full bottle I had was much more about the lime citrus and smoke, whereas the drams at the hotel were all orange and soot. Mmmmmmm? either way it?s delicious stuff. Anyone else noticed batch differences with this one?

?

Also, can we get a 100 proof (57%) or cask strength version of this please Ardbeg? We all know it would be epic.

?

Ardbeg 10 year old 46%

Colour: Straw

Body: Full

Nose: A great combination of strong smoke and delicate sweetness, really well balanced. Creamy, cough sweets, some fruit and citrus- lime, hay, quite earthy too. Going even sweeter with time, sweet vanilla, more citrus- lemon and lime, a small meaty note- salted dried ham? 

Taste: Creamy and oily to start, building peat with background sweetness. Lime tang, lemon too, then the peat hits with lots of burning hay, earthy notes, some light spice- nutmeg. There?s a great balance of the heavy intense peat and the light, lifting citrus. Mouthfeel is great too, very oily and mouth-coating.

Finish: Medium length. Creamy oily tangy citrusy soot coats the mouth.

1st and 2nd fill bourbon matured. Very balanced and complete in a way.

78/100 

(80/100 for the dram at the hotel bar)

?

You can find my write up from my visit to the distillery here and a big vertical I did here.

?

Thanks for reading!

Scotch Review #345

Whisky Network Reviews #386



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.com/ardbeg10

Network Average: 74.5

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent

?

Full Disclosure Disclaimer: I currently work as a Brand Ambassador for Penderyn Distillery. The views expressed here are purely my own and do not reflect the views of Penderyn Distillery or The Welsh Whisky Company. I try to maintain as much objectivity as I can but feel free to take my reviews with as big a pinch of salt as you like. Furthermore, my rating scale is NOT based on a Parker type wine scoring scale or a school/college/university % or A-F grade score. You can find more on my scoring here. I apologise for any seemly low or 'bad' scores given with my system and am sorry I can't say only nice things. Please keep in mind that I am ethically compromised and am unable to produce 100% unbiased reviews.

Why is this here?



If you don't warm up to the taste of Ardbeg then it is a simple question of personal taste, there is plenty of other scotch out there !

If you still want to try: Corryvreckan and Uigeadail are next in line



It might be that you just don't like Ardbeg...? Do you usually like peated malts?

I always recommend Uigeadail, but if you don't like the 10 I'm not sure you'd enjoy that either. Maybe try to find it in a bar?



The first scotch I ever really, truly enjoyed was a peated Scotch. This is not a review of that scotch, this is just a tribute. Or rather this is a review of the Scotch that took its place as my favourite for a short time: Today I will be reviewing Ardbeg 10. It has since been dethroned by it's successor, the great Oog, which you can check out here, however I still love the 10.

Warning: If you never wondered what a campfire would taste like if you could swallow it whole, then you may not enjoy this Scotch.

Price: $99.95 (CAD) for a 750/700ml, however I picked up this 50ml sample in Scotland for ?4

Abv: 46%

Region: Islay

Colour: Pale apple juice. No colouring here (from what I can tell)

Nose: Bacon, sea salt, violets, jerky, peat, peanuts, fresh cut crass, fire, almond extract, sour pear.

When I order this in a restaurant, everyone in the restaurant knows that I've ordered a Scotch. Or perhaps that I'm on fire. The smoke takes center stage. When I first asked for the smokiest scotch the store had, they handed me this one... followed by the great Oog. The violets and the almond extract/sour pear pop up in the background, which is a nice contrast.

Taste: Smoke, currants, jerky, tartness, lemon pie, vegetation. 

The taste itself is light, with the smoke tripping you up at first, and then leading to the vegetation/lemon pie flavours. If you aren't ready for an Islay peat bomb, you aren't going to be ready for this one. Took me awhile to really appreciate it.

Finish: Paprika, smoke, sour candy, cherries, nutmeg, bacon, burnt sugar.

The finish lasts a decent amount of time, and the flavours pop out, again under the smoke that stays throughout. Yet again it takes a long time to fish out the different flavours beneath.

Conclusion: I love smoke, and peat, and most of all, Islay whisky. This is the whisky for me, however there is some room for improvement. The smoke takes a LOT of your attention, and while that's what I like, it is almost one note. You have to try it a few times to just get those currant and citrus flavours. I'd recommend anyone who likes big, bold smoke to try this, and really to anyone who wants to see what the Islay smoke is all about to try this.

85/100



Nice review! One of my favorites. My wife can tell I've poured it from across the room. 

Price: $99.95 (CAD) for a 750/700ml

OUCH. That's double what I pay here in Virginia. 750ml of Ardbeg 10 goes for $49.95 (US).

On the other hand, I have to drive to another state to get "the great Oog" because the state-run liquor stores here don't usually stock it. 



Peripherally alcohol-related...I've been to Ottawa several times on business. One time my colleague and I wanted to go buy a six-pack of beer. Sorry, it's after 9:00 PM, The Beer Store is closed. We went back earlier the next day, and go in, and see no beer, just a price list. We tell the guy behind the counter what we want and in a couple minutes it pops out on a conveyor belt. Lots of individual attention, and priced accordingly, of course.

Yup, don't buy alcohol in Ontario, Canada, unless you hate money.

My wife will tell you I definitely love scotch more than money...



the great Oog

I got a bottle of this today. My goodness but it's awesome. I will spread the gospel of The Great Oog to all my malt-loving friends.



It does surprise you. I'd recommend (if you haven't already) trying Uigendail as well.

After drinking the great Oog heavily one night, the peat actually came out on my skin through my pores. My clothing and the shower both smelled of peat smoke for about 24 hours.



Where did you find that enormous glencairn?

edit: wrong preposition.



My favorite Scotch hands down.

Good review!  Thanks



Nice review, I'm picking up a bottle of this next week, can't wait to try it!

How does Oog compare to the 10 year? It's not available where I am, for some reason.



My review of the Oog is here. 

On a comparison level, the 10 is a lot of smoke with hidden flavours throughout. The Oog is a balanced, still smokey dram.
