Ardbeg Uigeadail ? 54.2% ABV - $75 for 750ml

?

I?m torn. This is a good, solid, whiskey that?s full-bodied and smoky yet still very drinkable. I think I read a description likening this to hickory barbeque, and I can definitely see the similarities. On the other hand, the price is a little bit of a killer to me. I really hate to demerit this wonderful dram based on affordability, especially considering it?s still under $100, but it is a factor. That?s really the only bad thing I can say about Oogie.

?

Would I re-buy a bottle? I don?t plan on drinking this one very fast, so not for a while. After that, we?ll see what else comes through my cupboard.

?

PS: if anybody familiar with review_bot can leave me some tips I?d appreciate it. It seems to be skipping most of my reviews.



That is damn good, but shipping kills the deal. Maybe if I order in bulk ;)

That said if I were nearby I'd clean out their Lagavulin stock. Locally, my best deals in scotch are Glenmo Quinta Ruban (40) and Laphroaig CS (55). Though I snagged a bottle of a'Bunadh for $60 once and that was pretty stellar.



You can pick up a bottle at klwines.com for $55 + shipping :)

http://www.klwines.com/p/i?s=14C834B8B366&i=1011309



It wasn't working too well earlier, but let's give it a shot...

@review_bot



By the way, it doesn't recognise any of your scores because you never use the xx/100 format. Now, you shouldn't need to use it, but I just want to point that out. (It's also one of the main issues I'm working on).

The only advice I can give for now is too neatly archive your reviews (which you have, I see :) ). Once in a while I just replace the bot's data with data from the archive. So eventually it should turn out better. :)



Good to know! I'll add the /100 going forward for the main score.

Edit: thanks for building the bot in the first place!



/u/Ethanized's  reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



It's not a whiskey, it's a whisky.

Please xxx



It's not a whiskey, it's a whisky.

X



Mystery Sample picked and poured by my wife. Tasting notes messaged to /u/devilsadvocate23 for reveal.        

?   

Color : Dark ruby.    

Nose : Dates, rubber & sea salt.   

Taste : Burnt rubber, camp fire ash, iodine, smoked paprika, strawberry jam, sour cherries, young oak, honey, melon and some more ash.      

Finish : Tons of sweet jammy notes followed by an ashtray. Good mouthfeel, oaky and spicy finish.     

?  

Guess : 105-110 proof, 6-8 years, Islay, Ardbeg Uigeadail?

Reveal : Ardbeg Uigeadail 108.4 proof  

Conclusion : I'm actually really surprised it took over 100 samples for someone to finally send me Uigeadail...3/5  



Ardbeg Uigeadail

Islay, 54.2%

color: golden hay

nose: barbecue smoke, sweet berries, peat, sweet pipe-tobacco, leather, cocoa, horse stable

taste: peat, barbecue smoke, sweet, lime, tar, hint of licorice and eucalyptus, salty

finish: hot, long, tar and smoke

More fruity and less smoke than the ten year old.

92/100



This has been on my bucket list for ages. I walked past one of my booze shops and saw it for significantly cheaper than usual so I figured what the hell and bought myself a late valentines day present.

Nose: Earthy peat, mineral rock, new leather, some anise, bit of sherry pushing through. Seaweed and dirty socks (that good Islay kind). Coffee. Bit of freshly laid road tar. Tobacco ash. Adding water brings out some more briny and sea side notes as well as some oak and fresh toast.  

Palate:Big peat blast, beautifully thick leather and smoke. A bit of malt is hanging around after the smoke clears, developing into some fruity sherry notes. Adding some water changes the order around, starting with the sweet sherry notes and developing into the smoke and leather. 

Finish: Takes off right as the sherry on the palate disappears and flows wonderfully into chewy leather, dark earthy peat and rich cigar smoke. Adding water makes the woody notes carry on through the finish and leaves a taste of wine and that cough syrup you used to like as a kid in the back of the throat .

Rating - 92/100

This is a lovely whisky and I can clearly see what all the hype is about. The symphony of flavours here is quite magnificent. Glad I splashed out and will gladly do it again.



So, I've posted a few reviews here so far, but haven't got to my obligatory ones of some of the core Ardbeg lineup. Time to get some of those, and then some, out of the way...

Ardbeg Uigeadail

Another of Ardbeg?s core lineup, this one finished in sherry casks. This one is named after the ?brooding, mysterious loch which provides the peat-laden water for Ardbeg?.

NAS. 54.2% abv. Non chill filtered, no coloring added.

Nose - Dry-cured ham, plenty of smoke, vanilla, raisins, liquorice (after some breathing), black and white pepper, onions caramelizing with cumin, tires?the nose on this actually reminds me a bit of Marsala wine, too. Sweet, smoky, and earthy all at once, with a kind of meaty depth to it.

Taste - Marsala wine, raisins, lots of ashy smoke, honey, vanilla, liquorice, black and white pepper, and some turmeric as it develops. Nice, full feel to it. Lots of big flavors, with exceptional complexity and balance.

Finish - Sweet ? raisins, Marsala again, liquorice, smoky, with huge spices ? black and white pepper, red pepper flakes, turmeric again. Eventually, a dry-cured ham not shows up. The spicy notes again have an interesting way of coming at you in a wave and really sinking in to your palate.

Very sweet, smoky, rich, and tasty ? great stuff. Like the Corryvreckan, this is a shining example of how good NAS Scotch can be, and it?s a shame some producers take the reputation this, and a few others have as a NAS, and bastardize it. It?s got some unique stuff going on ? these Indian spice notes (turmeric, cumin) I?m not finding that often other than with Ardbeg, and I really like that it?s offering something different.

92/100

so my house closes in a couple of days, everything is packed up (as you can see from the piles in the background), I don?t have a couch or bed to sleep on tonight, and I realized I need to post 4 more reviews to hit my goal of 100 before the sale closes! Fortunatley, I have an Ardbeg review already in hand thanks to the tasting tower at the LCBO, and i have 2 more Ardbegs unreviewed at home. so below is an Ardbeg triple review to get me to 99. 

First up is the classic: Uigeadail. I got this one in a bottle swap with /u/kilrathi for a bottle of FR125. had i known then what i know now, i probably wouldn't have swapped for just even dollar cost, but i was glad to help out another redditor. this bottle is $175 here in Ontario, so i felt like it was a good deal.

Appearance:  dark orange gold. Are these uncoloured? Thick oozing legs. 

Nose: great hit of peat up front, iodine, lots of brine, some floral notes too. dried fruit. Smoke too.

Taste: tons of smoke and charcoal. Ashy and delicious. Peaty bog. Smoked meats. Really thick and oily mouthfeel. I don't get the same bright red fruit flavours from sherried drams that I normally find. This is more figgy and pruney. Nice offset to the ashy peat though. EDIT: after tasting the Ardbog, this definitely is way more sweet and also more smoky. far more depth than Ardbog. 

Finish: smoky with some background sweetness. Boggy peat lingers a long time. 

Rating: 92/100

this is great and I'm sad I don?t have the 10 year the compare it to anymore which I reviewed way back in whisky review #1! . This seems like a small step up? more breadth but less depth in some ways. really really nice. 

haha you don't owe me a thing. as you said, the secondary market then for FR125 wasn't what it is now! you got something for cheaper than market and so did I!

glad i finally got around to reviewing the bottle as it's half empty now. felt fitting to get it done at this time of huge change in my life!

really is a fantastic community and i'm grateful to be a part of it



Hi everyone,

Another re-review coming at you from the Ardbeg stable this time. The Oog is classic and almost unbeatable in terms of value, if you like peat.

Ardbeg have been making a lot of noise recently with the brand new Oa, a ridiculously priced 21 and various Ardbeg Day editions but when I find myself trying other things from Ardbeg, I always catch myself thinking how they compare to the core stuff like the Oog. And always find them lacking, like Dark Cove.

So, at the risk of repeating myself. This is a vatting of 90%ish ex-Bourbon matured Ardbeg and 10%ish older ex-Sherry cask stuff, without an age statement. It's heavily peated, its higher strength and its very, very good. 

The two other batches I've tried I've given 84 (Bottle I bought at the distillery) and 86 (taster at a tasting, see below).

?

Ardbeg Uigeadail 54.2%

Colour: Gold

Body: Full

Nose: Missed that smell. Classic Ardbeg of course, with the big peat smoke underlined by the elegant lifting lime juice. There's a little unami meatiness, like an outdoors grill, wood smoke, but this batch seems more mineral than others I've had before- crushed rocks, chalky, hot slate, sea salt, cracked black pepper. Dark chocolate, leather and tobacco now, wah! So good!

Taste: Soft arrival but builds quickly with lime then big BIG smoke and huge minerality, slate and chalk, that salt and lime, tequila and uni nights out, cigerette smoke, the whole combo is very sexy, tobacco, outdoors wood smoke, camping, after 10 secs in the mouth it softens with more soft minerality and smoke. Really complex and balanced.

Finish: Long length. Mouth watering now with a oily smoke and lime citrus fighting to be the last thing left over. Some chilli too! Amazing.

10/2016 Batch. Some of the best whisky you can buy with your money, despite rising prices. Quality and consistency is bang on! Well done Ardbeg. 

Unfortunately it means that you'll be disappointed with other 'special' Ardbeg's, but that's a sacrifice you gotta make.

85/100

?

As a bonus, here's my notes for the 2015 batch I've had:

Feb/Mar 2015 batch

Nose: More malt driven nose with lots of oil, kiln and peat. Cough sweet and orange, still some meaty sulphur-y-ness. Water brings out more sulphur, vanilla fudge and toffee, more sherry, brown sugar, tobacco, coffee.

Taste: Peatier taste with a huge driven seemless building citrus smoke, tonnes of orange, tonnes of lime, cough sweets, citrus tang with a medicinal edge, building ginger spice. Bigger than the 2014.
Water calms the arrival, but still a huge long development with lemon, cough sweets and lime smoke. Orange soot, which is my favourite Ardbeggian note.
Long finish. 

86/100

?

Thanks for reading!



Network Average: 74.2

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 22

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent

?

Full Disclosure Disclaimer: I currently work as a Brand Ambassador for Penderyn Distillery. The views expressed here are purely my own and do not reflect the views of Penderyn Distillery or The Welsh Whisky Company. I try to maintain as much objectivity as I can but feel free to take my reviews with as big a pinch of salt as you like. Furthermore, my rating scale is NOT based on a Parker type wine scoring scale or a school/college/university % or A-F grade score. You can find more on my scoring here. I apologise for any seemly low or 'bad' scores given with my system and am sorry I can't say only nice things. Please keep in mind that I am ethically compromised and am unable to produce 100% unbiased reviews.

Why is this here?



The Corry doesn't have the Sherry notes, so no savory barbecue-like bits. I get more lemon with the Corry, and lots of chili pepper. 

I love them both, but rated the Corry a point higher. For all intents and purposes, I find them equally good, but different. Both are tremendous values for always-available bottles.



Oogie does.

Corryvreckan doesn't.



Yeah, well, maybe it was at first? That was before my time.

Yes?dig that up!



And now for the moment I've all...ways been waiting for. I've managed to acquire quite a few Ardbeg bottles because Ardbeg is almost always great whisky. What they distill always seems to be great quality. 

So we've got a lovely line up today. Starting with the Oog and Corry, we'll then go back to when they were being run by the guys at Laphroaig. A 1996, a 1993 and a 1991.

A note on my scoring: People seem to be a bit confused by how low I score stuff, I assure you it's just me leaving room for upper end stuff but my scores don't really go above 90/91. So if you did want to convert to a 'normal' score you can just add +9 to it.

Ardbeg Uigadail 54.2%

Colour: Dark Gold

Body: Full

Nose: Smoky bacon, BBQ, ash, soot, a little medicinal, burnt brown sugar, more sweet sticky BBQ, sweet meaty sulphur, lime jelly baby, juicy orange.

Water: Bigger sherry, big orange and lime juiciness, marzipan, cinnamon, jelly babies, some sour lime too, ash, charcoal. More dark and earthy after a bit- Leather, coffee and dark chocolate. Also sticky toffee pudding, maple syrup and caramel. Fresh and juicy while still dense and earthy.

Taste: Big intensely sweet arrival on brown sugar, dirty orange and lime citrus, quite juicy smoke coming up, campfire, peat smoke, creamy oil, oily malt, then the citrus and smoke intermingle more with some sweet BBQ and a juicy burst into the finish. 

Water: Sweeter and juicier- Orange and lime powerful and pure, then ashy and more earthy complexity with some dirty sherry. Some spicy white pepper.

Finish: Long length. Sweet and earthy with malt, kiln, sherry and a little spice.
Water: Drier with sour lime and coffee, some salt coming through.

Notes: 12/2014 batch. 10% older sherry casks, can't be too old at the moment though. It's beautifully made, wonderful balance. Gets better every time I try it.

84/100

A fantastic whisky for the price. Also worth noting I've had a batch from 2015 as well and it was even better!

Network Average: 79.2

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



Hi all! Here's my review of the great Oog. Before I was giving in submissions for this subreddit, I was awkwardly bumping around into different whiskeys. On my honeymoon in Edinburgh I stopped into the Scotch whiskey experience, and convinced my new bride we should go through the tour. We both decided that we loved Islay's after the great scratch and sniff taste test, and in my (now) inebriated state, stopped by the gift shop. I asked the very helpful staff for "the smokiest, peatiest stuff they had", and they lead me to this beauty.

Spoiler: It's my favourite, and I'm going to have to save my pennies to replace the bottle soon.

