First scotch review in quite a while. More to follow. 

Network Review #40, Scotch Review #7

Ardmore Traditional Cask Peated, 92 Proof

Color - really light amber

Nose - oak, peat, smokiness

Taste - corn, more than I expected, some smokiness, fruit, oak, a little vanilla

Finish - rather short, just peat

Overall nothing really stood out about this. There is peat and some other subtle flavors. Corn taste is rather strong. Nothing to make me buy it. Underwhelming.

Arbitrary Score

70/100



Feeling like one more dram tonight so I decided to pour a little bit of another dram from /u/rmill3r :) - Ardmore Traditional Cask Peated this time!

Ardmore Traditional Cask Peated Highland Single Malt -  46% ABV 

Enjoyed Neat

Color: Amber -1

Nose: Puff of malty yeast, waft of smoke and light peat, sweet chewing tobacco (acopenhagen), caramel, alcoholic tinge, char

Taste: Floral peat, it's a bit odd, light smoke & honey, salt, malty, wafers, peaty highland as you would expect

Finish: Smoke and light peat, zesty, finishes on spice with a medium finish, left with a dry mouth and lemon citrus.

Summary
This was about what I was expecting knowing that this is a peated Highland, hadn't had that combination before so this was an interesting dram for sure. I'm slowly coming around to enjoying more highlands after trying some older highland whisky - I try not to go into everything that says "peated" expecting the power of Laphroaig. I think if I had a bottle of this it would definitely grow on me.

Really glad to have tried this one and would recommend it to any intermediate scotch drinkers looking for something different in their Highland whisky. I probably wouldn't buy a bottle of this though and would rather op to put my money in another bottle that I know I would love to the last drop. Bunnahabhain12

Score  

80/100
Review #77



Greetings, r/scotch! Rmill3r here with another whisky review. Ever since I first started exploring peat and Islay whiskies, it's been an interesting journey to discover what works for me and what doesn't. This particular bottle took me by surprise, and I mostly bought it on a whim to be honest. As far as I know, it is the only fully peated Highland single malt. Not what you typically would expect, so let's see how it works . . . 

Ardmore Traditional Cask, Highland single malt Scotch whisky; 46% abv; fully peated; Non-chill filtered; matured for a final period in a small 19th century style 'quarter cask'; $49.99 for a 750mL bottle locally; enjoyed a neat dram

Atmosphere: With the current Steam Summer Sale going on, I drank this whisky inbetween and during sessions of The Witcher and Fez. Both fun games in their own right. 

Color: Orange and amber; no mention of natural coloring, but I'd say modest coloring

Nosing: Fruity peat, raspberries, rich cereal and malted barley, dried fruits as well, caramel, burnt brown sugar, vegetal earthiness, musk, charred oak, and bourbon similarities (owned by Beam, Inc., so go figure)

Tasting: Peat smoke, honey sweetness, oily mouthfeel, rich spicy vanilla, stale grains, salt, leather, more bourbon similarities, barley, and distinct cigar tobacco and bitter oak 

Finish: Short, stewed tea, medicinal, orange zest

Score: 70/100

This is one of those instances where you realize that whisky is a complicated spirit, and it's not always a simple formula that leads to a good malt (ie. 1 + 1 does not always equal 2). 

Forty-six percent alcohol by volume, non-chill filtered, finished in quarter casks. All of these factors are the recipe for a quality single malt, right? This whisky seems to scream quality and uniqueness right on the label. So when I saw that soaring golden eagle against a compelling red backdrop, I was sucked right into the sale. But what I found was a very young whisky and a rather disjointed palate. The nose is interesting and was fun to dive into, but the palate and finish were very odd and inconsistent at times.

Ardmore seems to proclaim that it has the craft distiller's presentation down pat and it comes with an unusual "peated Highland" claim. All I can say, really, is that it certainly gets points for trying something new and unusual but it just comes off as a drag. I've seen it at certain stores on sale, hovering around $30-$35, and if you can find it at that price, I would say it's more than worth giving a shot, but then again . . . as the price of this seems to have been raised closer to $50 and more, you could do much better than Ardmore Traditional Cask. 



Your pictures were so nice, I looked at all of them even though I have an unopened bottle in my cabinet. It looks like I don't have a lot to look forward to taste-wise, but I think the packaging is really quite well done.

They make a big to-do on the packaging that they do things in a traditional way. By many accounts, Scotch whiskey wasn't all that great until relatively recently in its long history. Maybe making a mediocre whisky is part of Ardmore's commitment to tradition.



Yikes! Sorry to hear this one was a miss. All the notes sound appealing to me though but the summary with the unbalanced feel has me worried, still anticipating the sample though! A peated Highland does sound a bit odd.

I believe Bruichladdich suffered the same fate when they were owned by Jim Beam Inc. - Maybe they should stick to Bourbon? No idea if they had a hand in the finished expression here or not. Nice review!



Laphroaig sends all their used bourbon casks to Ardmore, by the way, so they're all second fill. That's one factor that could be hurting it.

Also why Ardmore uses quarter casks while no one else really does. 

I get the feeling that Laphroaig is Beam Inc.'s big Scotch brand and Ardmore is an afterthought.



Ardmore:  Peated, 46%, NCF, $39 Total Beverage

Color:  Amber 0 -1 plus slight orange hue, small tears, thin legs.

Nose:  Peat, malt, pears, oak, coffee, Shoe polish, wax, tea

Taste:  Slight Burn, peat, brine, tree fruit, apples, pears, honey, ginger, smoke, burnt rubber, burnt toast

Finish:  Bitter, ginger, soapy, woody

With Water:  N:  Smoke, Peat, Brine, less fruit.  T:  Tamed burn, pear, peaty.

Score:  Taste:  65,  Value:  10,  Uniqueness:  3,  By Again: 2  Total:  80

My first impression when I opened the bottle was not bad.  This whisky is less peated than a number of Islays, but enough to take note of.  The nose and initial taste are not too bad either, but sadly it resolves to a weak, slightly bitter finish that comes across a bit industrial and processed.  Depending on the day I might re-score it plus or minus a couple points.  Still prefer this to most blends I?ve had.   



Highland? 46% ABV.

Score: 84/100

No age statement. It's first matured in "typical" ex-bourbon barrels and then transferred to traditional quarter casks (hence the name). You can tell it's young but I don't think it's underdone. The peat is subtle and adds a nice touch. I only had a sample but a full bottle goes for around $37 near me, which is a pretty good deal.

The distillery was founded in 1898 by the Teacher family and the bulk of their production is still used to make Teacher's Highland Cream.  This is allegedly their first official single malt release (I say allegedly because it looks like they had a 100th anniversary edition in 1999) and was first released in 2007. A lot of sources say it's a Speyside distillery but the bottle says "Highland Single Malt" so I'm gonna go with that. Maybe somebody else can enlighten us on the proper classification of Ardmore.

*Edit: you can get your own bottle of the 100th Anniversary Edition for just ?400.



I too would like to know if this is a Speysider or not. I believe that to be in the region, your water source has to feed into (or out of?!) the river Spey. But that's a guess.  

I like this one too. Great value ($30 by me.) My only gripe is that previous bottlings were noticeably more smokey than the current offering. Great review!



From the makers of Teacher's Highland Cream comes Ardmore. Finished in quarter-casks, this is a NAS medium-light peated Highland (or does this count as Speyside? I'm not certain) single malt.  I've bought this bottle no less than 5 times.  Is it that good?  Sorta.  First the notes! Unchillfiltered. Light bronze in color. 46% $30  

Nose:  smoke, alcohol, some floral notes.  

Taste: Rather harsh burn. Obviously young.  Malt, bitter berries, and sweet malt, finishing with smoke, oak, and pepper, warming.  

The 2011 bottling of Ardmore was significantly smokier and a bit less sweet than this variety. Plus this is a far from mature dram. Nevertheless, for $30 Ardmore gives you a big bang for your buck. 87/100



why did you send your review to the spam filter!

I got a lot of corn out of this stuff.  I should look to see what bourbon barrels they use, but I'm so lazy.



It's very young, that's fersure, and I don't think the Q-casks do much to help.  There is a definite bitter theme to the whole affair.  But it's strong and flavorful and cheap and I'm a mere wage earner.  

At the risk (certainty?) of looking like an interweb moron:  did I actually trip the spam filter?



While I wait for the /r/bourbon community review thread to open up, I thought I'd review this mystery dram UncleTobys sent me.

UncleTobys Mystery Dram. Aged 23 days in 5cl glass bottle in the ayedfy bond store/whisky shelf.

Nose: Light profile. Honey sweetness and coastal saltiness. Dry almond nuttiness and chilli powder spice. Gentle floral character.

Palate: A little hot. I'd guess the ABV in the high-40s. Despite this, it's somewhat light-bodied and the flavour profile is still quite subtle and thin. Honey darkening slightly, taking on more of a caramel quality.

Finish: Briney with a side of medicinal peat smoke. More light floral notes and honey subduing the smoke over time. Dry, length is on the shorter side of medium.

It's decent with some good development, but not enough to make it a real knockout. Drinkable and enjoyable, might be worth picking up if affordable. No idea what it could be though. Benromach Peat Smoke?

82/100



Ardmore Traditional Cask Peated

Thanks to /u/muaddib99 for the swap.  I need more mini bottles for more swaps, so it's time to drink some outstanding samples.  No complaints.

Colour: Looks about as typically golden of a scotch as you'd expect.

Nose: The peat and smoke is there, but not as prominent as most peated whisky.  Slightly strange winey, overly raw fruit, and vegetal notes dominate.

Palate: The smoke and peat come to the front here along with pepper, vegetal hints, honey, heather, and alcohol spirit.

Finish: Spices, faint peat and smoke, nice fruits.

Overall this is rather a simple and easy to drink peated spirit.  There are strange vegetal notes and raw fruit, but they're not at the forefront of this whisky to make it particularly unique and that may be a good thing.

abv is 46%

82/100



Ardmore Traditional Cask ? 46%, $40

Nose: Strong malt, medium smoke peat, light fruit sweetness, faint lemon.

Taste: Earthy peat, some ash smoke, malt, light honey, some lemon. Light mouthfeel. 

Finish: The malt and some of the lemon stay but it?s all gone pretty quickly. Short length.

Notes: I had this once many years ago and remembered it be good, I would still say it?s pretty good. I know they discontinued this expression for a short time for the Ardmore Legacy which is chill-filtered and 40%, but then brought it back rather promptly. 

81/100



/u/TOModera is quite the excellent fellow and included a mystery dram in our recent swap. I like to review mystery drams promptly because I worry that if I wait too long that the identity of the dram will be forgotten by the sender.

This is probably just me projecting because I know I've forgotten what some of the mystery drams that I sent out ages ago are...

Anyway, the only thing I know about this is that it is 46% ABV, and it's something that a Canadian was able to get his hands on. Let's get to it!

Mystery Dram from /u/TOModera

Strength: 46%

Color: Gold. 

Nose: Sweet and floral with some soft peat. Delicate malt character and a wisp of smoke. 

Off the nose I'd say that this is relatively young and lightly-moderately peated scotch, aged in ex-bourbon casks for 6-10 years. The peat doesn't have the medicinal notes I get from many Islays, so I'd guess this is either Bruichladdich, a peated Island malt, or a peated Highland malt. 

Palate: Creamy malt and peat are in the forefront. It has a velvety mouthfeel but has some fire to it for a 46%er. Vegetal peat, dark chocolate, toffee, and charred oak. 

The barrel character is a little more pronounced here, but it hasn't given me any notes to sway me from my guess of ex-bourbon cask. Maybe this is more like 8-12 years, or the barrel is fresher. 

Finish: Honeysuckle and fresh oak hang around after the peat has done its thing and shown itself out. 

Summary: A tasty dram for sure! The malt and peat are nicely balanced and ex-bourbon cask maturation cleans it up nicely without stealing the spotlight from the distilled spirit's character. 

Score: 87/100

My Guess

The following statements are ranked from highest confidence to lowest confidence:

OK /u/TOModera, how'd I do?

Am I even close?

Edit:

Scotch Review #105

Whisky Review #209



Damn dude, you're getting a little too good at this!

Have you had Clynelish 14? Is it in any way comparable? I've never had an Ardmore, either..



I have, and it's really good stuff!

It's not terribly similar to the Ardmore since it isn't peated and it much more malt centric. If I was going to compare Clynelish 14 to something, I'd probably be Amrut Single Malt (46%).

@review_bot scotch 'Clynelish'



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Clynelish reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Well, OK, but so is Balvenie. Clynelish 14 is not peated to a level that it tastes noticeably peaty to me. I get more peat/brine out of Bunna 12. 

In any case, Ardmore Traditional Cask is at the Glemo Finealta level of peatiness. 