Arran 10 single malt Island, 46% abv, ncf, natural color, $45

Quick review of a sample I got from bigmoneysalsa over on r/scotchswap. Thanks again!

color: light apple juice

nose:  slight peat, fresh apple, grassy, toffee, orange sherbert, melon

taste: orange rind, caramel, cinnamon, sea air, nice and malty and a relatively light body

finish: initial peat, lingering vanilla, dry citrus, floral and some lasting oak

Total: 90/100

This is my 4th Arran and this is my new favorite. I'm a fan of the distillery in general and I do believe I found a bottle I will always have on hand. I think, given the price, it's better than the 14 which is also quite nice (review in archive). Definitely something worth checking out.

Review #20. Someone become the new mod and give me a new tartan. 



Very nice review

I too like Arran a lot.  I have only had the 10 but it was right tasty, especially for the price.  I picked up a bottle in a nice gift set with a couple nosing glasses and it was only $40.  I was quite impressed by it for such a young distillery and whisky.  



(Mods, I can haz tartan upgrade?)

First, two from a distillery that I?ve been interested in trying?Thanks to /u/vertical_bog for the samples.

Arran 10

Nose-malt, cereals, honey, creamy

Palate-pretty solid mouthfeel, malty sweetness, cereal, vanilla, bit of salt

Finish-malt sweetness, salt, short

Overall- fairly straight forward (almost plain), but if you like the malty flavor profile, this one is for you.  The mouthfeel lends real credibility to this experience. I?ll be very interested in the other expressions from Arran.

80/100

Oh, hey.  Look. Another expression from Arran. Coincidence? I think not?

ssMaybe I'm just not a fan of that style wine.  I'm struggling with my bottle, whereas I practically guzzled my bottle of 10.  Yum!  



You may be familiar with Arran 10 - I know I wasn't.  This review was done blind.  Any feedback would be great.  Sample by /u/G-List from a hundred years ago.

Nose: Grain, Peaches and Cream, Trails off to Apples and Cinnamon

The nose starts off unassuming and delicate but after a while the peach note really fleshes out with all of its sweetness.  

Palate: Nicely oily, Grainy, Hints of Peaches and Cream again

Almost no distinct notes here.  Nice mouthfeel though.

Finish: Bitter bite near the tonsils and a nice medium length ghost of peaches.

The finish meets the palate and the nose halfway.  Lacks some finesse with a bitter bite at the end. 

Overall: The nose was quite nice but the palate and the finish didn't hold it together.  I've never had a nose so clearly peach before.

Score: 69/100

@review_bot add



Hah, massive. I have three bottles of Arran and one of them is the 10 year. 

I'd be happy to swap you some when I open the other two. Have you tried the 12 CS that /u/filez41 has? I like it a lot. 



Hi all, a bit of a Scotch marathon tonight, with 5 whiskies from the lovely Isle of Arran distillery. These were all tasted together at some point (even if they weren't all out for the photo!)

The Arran distillery is found on the Isle of Arran (surprise!), just off the east of the Kintyre peninsula (where Campbeltown is located).
A relative newcomer, they only started distilling in 1995, although in the short time since then they have established a large presence in the whisky industry, as good as any of the long-established distilleries. The majority of their malts are non-chill-filtered, with the 14 Year Old being the current flagship. An 18 Year Old release is hotly anticipated in a year or two.

I have also previously reviewed the Arran 12 Cask Strength at the link below. It is a good one and I include it in my round-up at the end!
http://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/vzavx/review_arran_12_year_cask_strength/

Onwards we go...

Arran 10, NCF, 46% ABV

Nose: A bit creamy, lemon peel and a cereal/oaty note. Quite light.

Palate: A bit minerally, slightly salty even. Some cereally sweetness. A pinch of lemon oil.

Finish: More oats + cereal coming out, a bit of gentle spice, and black pepper.

Overall: Light and easy, nothing harsh or unbalanced here.

Score: B on instrinsic quality. For a 10 year old whisky at this price point it is actually superior to many of its peers. However it is also quite light and subdued in its flavour profile. 

Overview
I've seen others reviewing some Arran recently so I decided to scoop up a mini from my local BevMo for $7.99. I thought this was a bit pricey for a mini but I didn't want to spend $42 on a full bottle without trying it first. The Arran distillery is one of the youngest in Scotland founded in 1993 and producing their first spirit in 1995. Aged in ex-bourbon casks and finished in sherry, non-chill-filtered and natural color.  Woodford Reserve Bourbon is one of the sources for Bourbon casks to Arran and is very similar to Arran as a distillery in the US. Then at Gordon Mitchell's discretion, the Distillery Manager at Arran, the whisky is moves to refill sherry and for the last year of it's life finished in fresh sherry casks.

Arran 10 Island Single Malt - ABV 46%  

Enjoyed Neat  

Atmosphere Bonus:
picture Enjoying fighting game world championships in Las Vegas streaming live
article Live Streams - Friday, Saturday and Sunday

Price: $45 - 750ml bottle 

Color: Straw, Amber - 2, Natural Color, Non Chill-filtered

Nose: Herbal, grassy, garden soil, freshly cut pine wood, bitter-sweet honey, sweet cream, citrus rind, biscuit, banana peel, dry wood, dry sake, dry vanilla oak, dark chocolate, simply complex. I would say this is like walking into garden center who's also making lemon cream pies with the lumber department right next door cutting wood. A bit closed, recommend adding a splash of water.

Taste: Sweet cream, citrus, pear, almond and walnut, caramel, toffee, fresh pineapple, sea salt, simple sugar (not cloying), very faint light sherry, medium-oily, starts smooth thickens and slowly warms and turns a little fizzy feeling.

Finish: Bright, fresh, grassy, white fruits, cream, pineapple, very soft pepper, nuts, dry vanilla - medium-hot with a long finish. The 46% here is very welcome, plenty of flavor. Finishes dry leaving vanilla oak, citrus and cream.

a splash of water The nose sweetens and opens up nicely, white fruits come out, nuts and the grassy notes take a back seat, the palate turns velvety with sweet citrus cream, nuts, vanilla and pie crust into the finish with the heat turned down slightly but still there same bright fresh fruits, nuts, less pepper - this whisky can handle water no problems and still deliver a great drink.

Summary
This is my first taste of an Arran single malt and its surprisingly good stuff, it was almost exactly what I expected from what I've read of other peoples reviews of it and it didn't disappoint. At $45 a bottle this is a good value for what you're getting here, it is a little reminiscent of a Highland single malt with a bit of uniqueness to it in that it's got some enjoyable herbal grassy notes.

This is good introduction to Arran, at 10 years old it's a fine Island single malt for anyone not into smoke and peat from Highland Park and Talisker. I found that this one got tastier with just a dash of water added, it opened up the aroma, palate and finish. I've been experimenting a little more with water lately after a few neat sips to see how the malt changes. Generally the very last sip of my dram is the one I add water to so I can do most of my tasting neat.

I'm curious about the 14 year now. Thanks for reading.

Score  

87/100
Review #45



Thanks for the review man; sounds like something I'd like.

Also: those fighting game championships are insane to watch.  Those guys are unbelievable at that level.



Sure thing, it's enjoyable I'm glad I had access to some locally as a sample.

I know right? I've been to EVO twice (2009 and 2011) it's really crazy to be in that ballroom during finals, so much fun. I used to run local tournaments but I've Gone home to be a family man if you catch my drift ;)

Did you check out the finals last night of Marvel and Street Fighter?



Hello Scotchit.  I'm here with a quick review of the Arran 10 Year Old. 

The Arran Malt 10 Year Old

$39.99, 46%ABV,  Non-Chillfilterd

Sampled from a 50mL mini, neat

Color : Pale Straw (Don't think there is any e150 here)

Nose : Island freshness. Sea air, light malt sweetness, lemon tea, mineral notes.

Taste : Medium mouth-feel, a touch oily, but feels lighter because of  ow bright and fresh it is.  Soft vegetable peat, Lemon citris and sweet malty notes (lemon pound cake), light brine, and cinnamon.

Finish : Medium length. Tangy,  oak, , lemon citrus is still there, cereal, slightly dry.

87/100

A ridiculously drinkable malt.  Arran makes a superb summer dram with its bright citrus character.   A high value and quality for the money. The Arran 10 year is not overly complex, but I really don't think it's trying to be.  If you are heading into the unpeated or lightly peated Islands for the first time the Arran 10 makes an ideal place to start.  I would even argue this would be a great beginner malt around.  



Review #46

The Arran 10yo. 

ABV: 46%

Color: pale amber

Nose: fruity, spice, floral, cereal, malt

Taste: fruity, spice, vanilla, cream, floral, salty, cereal, a little citrus

Finish: sweet, spicy, cereal of medium length

Conclusion: This scotch reminds me of the Benriach 12. The floral and spice seems very similar. A bit of a tough scotch to get to know if you're going to have only a dram (45ml). Very wonderful though. I can't wait to try the other Arrans in the future.

Score: 85



Whisky Network Review #57-58

The Isle of Arran distillery makes a number of very popular Arran Malt single malts. While the distillery itself is relatively young, there is a long history and tradition of whisky making on the island (i.e., apparently "taking the Arran waters" was a popular euphemism in the 19th century).

The modern Arran Malt whisky is very much in the style of the previous production on the island. The base spirit is relatively gentle, creating a soft and light taste. These are finished in a mix of American oak ex-bourbon barrels and first-fill/refill European oak sherry casks. These sorts of light whiskies lend themselves well to cask finishing, and Arran has a wide set of wine cask-finished malts available as well (more reviews to come). There expressions are typically not chill-filtered, and with no artificial coloring, which is always appreciated.

I thought I would start with their youngest age expression versions, the official bottlings of the 10 year old and 12 year old (the later at cask strength).  My sample of the 10 yo came from the /u/wuhantang (46% ABV). I sampled the 12 year old in a bar in Norway (54.0% ABV).  Based on the ABV, I believe this is the same batch of the 12 yo that was carried by the LCBO last year.

10 Year Old

Colour:  Very pale apple juice (nice to see no artificial coloring here).

Nose: Sweet and malty, with light honey notes. Light fruits as well, mainly green apple, pear and plum. A bit citrusy. Some caramel. Grassy and a touch floral. Very slight solvent note (glue), which is consistent with the young age - but less offensive than usual. A decent nose overall, very easy-going.

Palate: Very malty again, with Arrowroot biscuits. Sweetened (green) apple juice. Caramel notes pick up further now, and take over from the light honey. Some mild spices pick up too, nutmeg and a touch of cinnamon. Surprisingly watery for 46% ABV, with a very light mouthfeel. Ok, but not overly interesting.

Finish: Medium-short. Oaky bitterness comes up quickly, intermingled with some of the sweet fruit notes. Honestly, reminds me a bit of some of the inexpensive youngish Canadian blends which have similar issues.

My experience of this one was going fairly well, up until the finish.  While some really like this expression, for me it falls behind other popular examples of the class (e.g., I think the AnCnoc 12 yo is a better choice for similar cost, and the slightly more expensive Dalwhinnie 15 yo is definitely a step up). But the Arran 10 yo is still a very decent option in its price class.

Score: 82

Always hard to directly compare a cask-strength to a regular strength whisky. The Dalwhinnie 15 remains my de facto standard bearer in the light flavour class - it's interesting enough, not too sweet, and with no real off notes.  Personally, I would probably go for the Arran 12 CS because of the higher ABV.  But I'm comfortable rating them equivalently, on the whole.



Bought this to try with my dad. The other two Arrans I?ve had were really good. Let?s see how their entry-level does. 

Islands, 46%, natural color and non-chillfiltered, $50

Nose: Mild sea breeze, peaches and cream, malt, honey 

Palate: Peaches and apricots, orange, light sherry, cereal, cream. Youth comes through with some heat and a little solvent. Smoothes out a little with a splash of water. 

Finish: Medium length, fruit and cereal continues from the palate, a little burn.

Conclusion: Not bad for an entry level, but it?s clearly on the young side. It?s a good bit better than Glenlivet/fiddich/morangie. Probably a good introduction to Scotch, but I can?t help thinking how much better the 12 CS is. 

Buy again? Glad I tried it, but I?d spend the extra for the 12 or maybe 14. Bunnahabhain 12 is still my malt to beat in the $50 range. 

81/100



but I can?t help thinking how much better the 12 CS is. 

Indeed!  I was unimpressed with the 10yo (found it better than Glenmorangie 10, but on part with GL/GF 12).  But the 12 CS was a revelation in comparison - one of the best "light" flavoured malts I've tried.

Thanks for the review.



Been wandering down the bourbon/American whiskey rabbit-hole for a while now, but fear not, /r/scotch, there?s still plenty of room for the Scottish isles in my liquor cabinet. Including this bad-boy?to which I was drawn by reviews, by the craft presentation, and by the desire to support a younger, independent Scottish distillery.

The Arran Malt 10 Year Old Single Malt Scotch Whisky; Island; 10 years old; 46% ABV; non-chill-filtered (no word on artificial colour); 700mL; retails for about $53 Cdn. in Alberta.

Appearance: Deep gold? Deep copper? No word on the use of e150a here, but I think it?s here, minimally, and most of the colour is the result of mixing ex-bourbon and ex-sherry casks. Good legs. The bottle, tin, and packaging are fairly nice (especially the matte black of the tin). No real complaints.

Nose: Skews sweet for sure. Lemon zest and lemon Lifesavers candy, but also the presence of berries (cherry Lifesavers here as well?), apples, pears, and tropical fruit?kiwi? Cantaloupe? Banana for sure. An ever-so-slight brininess (very tamed). Cut grass, hay. Vanilla. Light licorice? White grape. Ginger simple syrup. Mildly earthy. Cereal notes. Reminds me a bit, actually, of a more three-dimensional iteration of the Stalk & Barrel Canadian single malt that?s recently started hitting shelves up here.

Taste: So soft and so creamy; nicely coating, and I?m going to use an accursed word around these parts: smooth. Good lord, this is drinkable. Light, but with a pretty rich intensity of flavour. A little bit of cinnamon and gingery spice, but mostly it?s a repetition of what you get on the nose. Big pear hit initially. Tropical fruits, white grape (grappa?), berries, Lifesavers candies of all sorts. Vanilla. Light earthiness. Lime? Hay. Sawdust. Fresh and sour apples. What?s surprising, despite all these descriptors on the nose and taste, though, is that I don?t find this ever goes too far over into sweetness. There?s a nice bit of dry oak always lingering at the back, along with some lemony tartness.

Finish: Fairly dry considering all the aforementioned fruity descriptors. Medium, but subtle and pleasant. Tropical fruits. Lemony tartness, like a flavoured throat lozenge. Hints of raspberry, maybe? Gingery heat. Lingering sense of the ingredients here, like a cereal note. Apples.

Final Thoughts: Something of the new-make character pokes through here, which is surprising given the different oak influences (I?m not certain, but I?d guess this is a mix of ex-bourbon and sherry, or ex-bourbon finished in sherry) at work; but that sense of the ingredients isn?t a bad thing?it?s actually pretty interesting. This is a malt that skews to the sweeter side of the spectrum, which is maybe why it?s one that?s still speaking to me pretty loudly even while I?m on a bourbon kick at the moment. It?s also, for an entry-level single malt, really damn interesting and pretty damn tasty. Not sure how it?s priced in other regions, but here it?s in the same ballpark as a lot of the entry level malts?your Glens and your Highland Parks, Bowmores, etc.,--and it compares favourably to any of them: it?s doing something that?s a bit different than those other entry-levels, while also still being really accessible. Especially if you do have a bit of a sweet tooth. I?m definitely a fan.

Score: 85
