Isle of Arran 14 years old

With my last whisky purchase (which included Glenmorangie Ealanta, Glenfarclas 105, and AnCnoc 12) I got to my surprise this sample as a gift, later on I found out in this online store, you get a whisky sample for orders above 200?.

So I was happy indeed, since I always wanted to try some of this young distillery (founded in 1995), due to its small size, affordable prices, NCF, and NCA policy.

Region:Island.

ABV: 46% (NCF).

Age: 14 years old.

Colour: Yellow gold (NCA) .

Nose: Pepper, hints of peat, syrup, honey, vanilla, delicious citrous sour notes, fresh fruits, pears, melon, hints of mint, and ginger.

Taste: Long evolution, oak, again the citrus with sweet notes, banana, subtle spices, aromatic floral notes, vanilla.

Finish: Long and subtle, with a mixture of floral and citrus notes.

Price: 40?.

76/100 - Quite a complex dram here, with an amazing nose ruled by delicious melon.

I will most certainly buy a full bottle of Arran, let?s see if it's a cask finish, or a standard version.



Sounds like a winner.  I am currently enjoying a bottle of Arran 10yo, and it's pretty nice.  

Great review!



The Arran Malt, 14 Years Old, 50 mL Sample Bottle, Islands, 46% ABV, Non-Chill Filtered

An independent distillery located on the Isle of Arran. According to their site they claim to have very pure water and a warm microclimate which speeds up ageing. It that's bullshit it's at least believable. The distillery is relatively new (opened 1995) and also small in terms of production capacity. 

Nose: honey, floral, heather, leafy / hay, lemon, spices such as nutmeg and cinnamon, caramel, marzipan. Wasn't expecting the nose to be this light and delicate. Slightly spicy floral is a good summary. Like 6 drops of water really opens it up and a lot more fruit appears. A little prickling. Very fresh.

Colour: very light straw/yellow 

Body: nice and oily, full bodied but wet and juicy. I wish more scotches were like this. Non-chill filtering or gtfo. 

Palate: strong vanilla, bitter oak, toffee and caramel sweetness, lemon, hazelnuts, there's some fresh fruit too to balance it out. A little hot on the tongue. I thought I tasted smoke, but I think it's wood/brine. Primarily sweet in nature. Addition of wter rounds everything out ? recommended to dilute by a little bit. Dry and also spicy ? mainly cinnamon and nutmeg.    

Finish: on the short side, spice, grassy, fairly big vanilla oak hit, a bit of salt to end it all. Dry. Definitely bourbon casked, and probably first fill.  

I think Arran needs more time in the cask as overall, the palate and finish are EXACTLY what the nose portends. Arran 14 is what I would want to drink when I'm not in the mood for surprises, such as after an unpredictable, eventful and draining day. Going to wait for an older expression to become available before I buy a full bottle from Arran.   

85/100 ? good, but nothing special. 

If you like lighter scotches and no peat, get a bottle asap. This is what Glenlivet and Glenfiddich can only dream of being.  



Arran 14 

$70, 46%abv NCF

Thank you u/DaveU for the sample.  

Nose: Crisp and citrus forward, but settles into fresh herbal sweet tea, peaches, honey, tangerine jelly and grain.  It is by no means too sweet, just lovely.

Palate: Great texture, Rich agave and malty. Cinnamon and other European wood notes with mild salt.  I?m surprised this isn?t fruitier and that the sherry notes are really prominent. Almost a little too much wood.  

Finish: Blackberries, tart with dry grain notes and vanilla, ehhh.

84/100 Doesn?t knock any socks off but give it a go if you want.



Hi all, a bit of a Scotch marathon tonight, with 5 whiskies from the lovely Isle of Arran distillery. These were all tasted together at some point (even if they weren't all out for the photo!)

The Arran distillery is found on the Isle of Arran (surprise!), just off the east of the Kintyre peninsula (where Campbeltown is located).
A relative newcomer, they only started distilling in 1995, although in the short time since then they have established a large presence in the whisky industry, as good as any of the long-established distilleries. The majority of their malts are non-chill-filtered, with the 14 Year Old being the current flagship. An 18 Year Old release is hotly anticipated in a year or two.

I have also previously reviewed the Arran 12 Cask Strength at the link below. It is a good one and I include it in my round-up at the end!
http://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/vzavx/review_arran_12_year_cask_strength/

Onwards we go...

Arran 14, NCF, 46% ABV

Nose: Much much fuller than the 10 Year. Fruit salad, tinned fruits (pear, peach), peach pits, a bit of citrus peel. The cereal notes are more pointed and focused now. Also a rich toasted european oak woody and spiced note.

Palate: Big peachy, plummy arrival. Tropical fruits, tinned peaches, fruit nectar sweetness. Drying out with oak spice and vanilla in the middle. Minerally and fruity (lots of peach/apricot) towards the end. 

Finish: Going to dried fruits now, dried apricot, gentle oak spice (allspice, hint of clove).

Overall: A real joy on the nose and palate. Very fruity also compared to the others.

Score: A, the most balanced out of the set I have to say Arran have hit the nail on the head here.




Review 25: Arran Malt 14yo

Color: Pale gold

Nose: Malty, sweet honey, and green bananas. Vodka infused grapefruit with a fresh resinous licorice note. Noticeable alcohol. After a while I notice more floral aromas, reminiscent of rose petals.

Palate: Vivid fruitiness, caramel, and honeyed menthol. Slightly bitter with more licorice, but contrary to the nose, there is very little sweetness here. The coastal note is indicated by a minor briny sensation.  

Finish: Medium-short. Moderately oaky. 

Conclusion: Typical ex-bourbon whisky with a slightly higher ABV and no chill-filtration, which is not very exciting, but very drinkable. The finish is boring, but the nose exhibits a certain complexity with its evolving aromas. I sampled this from a small 5cl bottle.

80/100



have you had the 10yo?  I like the 10, but I keep hearing that the 14 is just a more boring version. . .

Nice review!  



Islands, 46%, non-chillfiltered and no added coloring. Rested in a glencairn about 15 minutes. 

Sample courtesy of u/aglarattercop

Nose: Very fruity, mostly peaches and apples. A little sherry nuttiness. Floral honey. 

Palate: Fruit cocktail, wet leaves, lemon pound cake with icing. Definitely on the sweet side. Good mouthfeel and not hot at all. 

Finish: Oaky astringency is prominent. Fruit flavors continue. Lemon and thyme. Less sherry here.                                                          

Conclusion: I like what Arran does. Nearly everything is bottled at 46% and up, uncolored and non-chillfiltered. I?ve tried the 10 and 12 before, so this is my third of the regular range. And pretty darn tasty. I was not too impressed with the 10. This is much better. A great summer dram, as it?s on the light and fruity side, but not too sweet. I think I still prefer the 12 CS, but this is very nice. 

Buy a bottle? Haven?t see any in my local shops but at around $70 I?d happily pick one up. 

86/100



Region: Islands - 
ABV: 46%

Colour: Medium Amber/Pale Gold

Nose: Fresh, Crisp, Fruity and Buttery with Malt, Vanilla, Citrus, Oak, Banana, Brown Sugar, Apple, Raisins, Toffee/Caramel and hints of Leather, White Grapes, Melon and Grappa. While Nosing the Arran the hit Summer Sunshine by the Corrs (2004) popped up in my mind. If you know the song, you get the feeling! 

Taste: Dryer than expected with Oak, Spices (Pepper and Nutmeg), Citrus, Salted Nuts, Malt, Caramel and a hint of Dark Orange-flavoured Chocolate.

Finish: Middle Long combination of Sweet and Sour with Buttered Toast, Malt, Pepper, Brown Sugar, Cocoa, Lemon, Mint and Pineapple. Pinch of Salt.

I added a few drops of Water and you get more Citrus, Oak, Malt and hints of Brine and Honey on the Nose. Palate and Finish become spicier and you get lots of Lemon. Nice to play with a bit of Water here.

Rating:  85 

Nose:  22 - Taste: 21 - Finish: 21- Overall: 21

General Remarks: The Isle of Arran in Lochranza at the Isle of Arran is a very young and independent distillery. The first spirit was produced in 1995. The Arran 14 was released in late 2010 and replaced the 12 Year Old as the Standard Bottling. It matured in a combination of American Oak Barrels and Ex-Sherry Casks. During the last two years the whisky was transferred to fresh barrels (2/3 American Oak and 1/3 European Oak). The Whisky is distilled from un-peated malted Barley, does not contain E-150 and is non Chill-Filtered.

Drinking Experience Neat: Good

Conclusion: The Arran 14 Years is a very pleasant crisp Summer Dram. Sip this neat on your balcony or terrace or enjoy it with a bit of Ice. The Palate and Finish are dryer than the Nose would like you to believe. But the combination of Lemon, Spice, Mint and Salted Nuts is just what the doctor ordered on a nice Summer Day!



Yup! I'm a fan of this one. Sadly, my bottle is nearing it's completion.

Were you able to pick up any of their other samples? (I assume you got this in a 50ml.)



REVIEW #56: Isle of Arran 14 year - 46% abv 

Nose: creamy, orange sherbet, white sugar, icing, vanilla, yellow cake, toasted bread, clove, hot cocoa mix, freshly baked bread, grilled pinepple, floralhint of oak

Taste: creamsicle, orange zest, vanilla cake, barley sugar, honey sugar, orange sherbet, raisin, custard

Finish:  light, floral, cocoa, raisin, honey, vanilla, orange cream

Score: 88/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes, but no.

Closing Thoughts: This is a complex, well-made whisky, but it?s more focused on the orange creaminess as these flavors and aromas carry through to the finish.  It?s good and tasty and sherbety, but I preferred the 12 year Cask Strength over this by a slight margin.  That the cask strength accepts a lot of water equates to better value for money.  That the 12 year cask strength is $20 cheaper seals the deal for me.  I?d buy the 12 year over this one, but this is an excellent whisky in its own right.




Island (Arran). 46% ABV.

Score: 86/100

The more I try from Arran the more I like them. This  is well-crafted, well-balanced, clean and enjoyable. I could see having this as my go to non-peated option.



The Arran Malts were always ones I meant to buy in the past, but I always seemed to get distracted and purchase something else.  I finally stuck to my guns and bought the 10,14 and 18.

The Arran 14yr.

Non Chill Filtered and Natural Color

46% ABV

Nose: Pungent plums, cooked corn and dried flowers.  Almond roca.  Pine needles on a wet forest floor.  Mandarin oranges in a simple syrup.  Spiced poached pears drizzled with a peach liqueur.  Cinnamon and mild nutmeg.  Apple strudel with an icing sugar glaze.  Soft oak notes that compliment the nose well and never overpower.  Flat ginger ale.  Faint prunes and dates.  Baby powder.

Taste: Not very sweet in the arrival, the nose had me expecting something sweeter.  Malty, with the same rye bread crackers in the 10yr.  Lemon zest and baked shortbread.  Pine oil and weather worn leather notes that were there about half the time.  Wine gum candy and grape juice.

Finish: A mid length finish, more well mannered and gentle than the 10.  It still has some alcohol heat, but it is more timid here in the 14yr.  The oak notes are more of force here, but they are still at comfortable levels.

More dense and spicy than the 10.  Perhaps there are some sherry casks contributing to that.  I'm not sure.  A different experience than the 10, but still enjoyable in its own way.  The 10 and 14 provide a similar experience, but they take slightly different  paths to get there.

87/100




According to Serge at whiskyfun.com, they're pretty different and he prefers the newer 18 year old (blue packaging).

http://www.whiskyfun.com/archiveoctober15-2-Rye-Bourbon-Mortlach-Lagavulin-Caol-Ila-Aultmore.html#191015

http://www.whiskyfun.com/archivemarch16-2-Highland-Park-Springbank-Macallan-Tomatin-Benriach.html#230316
