The Balvenie Doublewood 17 years old

Second sample of the discovery pack I bought from Balvenie (12DW, 17DW and 14CC), it is honestly way better than the 12DW, softer, more complex and elegant. It would be the dram I expect getting when discussing something important with my family or friends.

Region: Speyside.

Age: 17 years old.

ABV: 43%.

Colour: Amber Honey, old copper (darker than the 12YO), in Germany they say it is caramel added.

Nose: Oak (bit more than the 12YO), pepper, vanilla, lots of fruits (pear, banana, and other tropical fruits), red wine.

Taste: Honey bomb, oak, cinnamon dryness.

Finish: Oak, sweet, honey, sweet fruits (banana, papaya, mango?).

Price: 108? per 700ml bottle.

Best double matured whisky I have ever had, the sherry brings more fruitiness and body to the expression, without creating something artificial, here everything walks together, and I don?t have this strange feeling that something is wrong, which I had with Caol Ila DE.

81/100 - Very nice dram, but a bit too pricy.

Previous reviews:

Islands

Talisker 57? North - 77/100

Talisker DE 2011 - 65/100

Speyside

The Balvenie 12DW - 68/100

The Balvenie distillery tour

Cardhu 12 years old - 55/100

The Macallan 12 years old fine oak - 71/100

Islay

Ardbeg Corryvreckan - 90/100

Laphroaig 10 years old - 74/100

Smokekead Extra Rare - 35/100

Ardbeg TEN - 81/100

Caol Ila DE 2011 - 70/100

Highlands

Glenmorangie Original - 83/100

Lowlands

Auchentoshan Valinch - 60/100

Blends

Monkey Shoulder - 62/100

Ballantine?s Finest - 50/100 but 90/100 for mixing

J&B Rare - 15/100

Johnnie Walker Green Label - 67/100



I found this little set of Balvenie Samples at a local store, and couldn't resist. Something like $12 for the set, seems like a great price. Anyway-

Balvenie 17 DoubleWood - 43%

Color: Darker Amber than the 12.

Nose: Sherry, brown sugar, honey, vanilla, salted caramels, sweet red wine, white grapes, sweet orange juice.

Taste: Fresh sweetness, dark apples, brown sugar and caramel, and some oak. A little weak, unfortunately.

Finish: More brown sugar, slightly bitter oak, but sadly short.

Score: 82/100

Buy a full bottle? Tough to say. It's tasty, but sadly weak and short finish. I can't help but wonder if this small sample bottle had an effect, and tasted differently from a dram from a full 750? Was the mini not sealed very well?  I'll have to keep an eye out for a bottle at a cheap price or at a bar or something, that way I can compare.

Good stuff, I'd certainly be interested in trying more from Balvenie, I hear great things about many of their offerings.



Thanks for the reviews!

Careful though. If The Balvenie becomes a favorite, your wallet will never be the same.



Well, work and traveling got a little more crazy than I expected so I'm a little late posting the final two reviews of this 13 part series. Here they are, though!

Screw the 12 days of Christmas, Thanksgiving is coming up already happened! What better way to celebrate than with a full thankful serving of mystery reviews, provided by /u/Mentel42. He kindly traded me 13 mystery samples in return for a bottle of Old Forester Birthday Bourbon. I stipulated that the samples should be from Scotland or America. I am unfamiliar with /u/Mentel42's inventory, so these reviews should be as uninformed as possible. Here we have Samples "Ell" and "Mmm":

For each of the thirteen samples, the first thing I did was nose from the 2oz Boston bottle. My notes there: Ell: "No idea. Bourbon? Scotch?"; Mmm: "Medicinal peat - laphroaig?"

On to the official tastings:

Sample Ell

Nose: Malty, barley sugar, light lemon/citrus, similar to AnCnoc 12. Some salt. High quality.

Taste: Honey, citrus, malt, crisp apple, ribbon candy, salt, lemon, pepper

Finish: Sugar, lemon zest, dry, white chocolate, sweet malt, slight vegetal peat, mushroomy, not much cask influence but not spirity.

Very slight peat. Tastes like a lightly peated highland, or maybe an Island malt? Could be peated AnCnoc. ABV is 43-46ish. The longer I spend with it, the more peat shows up, but it's never in the foreground. Springbank 10? Whatever it is, it's lovely. Delicate but complex; elegant and satisfying.

My guess is: Springbank 10
86/100

And, the reveal! Sample "Ell" is...

Balvenie Double Wood 17 43%. I was way off! I've had this before but I remember it being much more candy-sugar sweet than this. Oh well, it's a good dram!




Balvenie 17 Doublewood

Speyside, 43% ABV

Nose: Vanilla, honey, sugar, oranges, roasted nuts, sweet sherry

Palate: Vanilla, cinnamon, sherry, honey, cream, nutmeg, bourbon, slight spice and smoke

Finish: Oranges, cherries, sherry, vanilla, oak

84/100 Very good, not great. Lots of sweetness, signature honey and vanilla. It's a little on the weaker side much like the 21 year [I had the 21 at 40% ABV]. All the Balvenies I've tried have been good, but none of them have really blown me away which is a shame because I had high expectations going in. I'd mark this about the same as the 21 year.



The Balvenie Double Wood 17
43% ABV, 60 ml sample         

Nose Dried banana, brown sugar, damp oak, sweet lemon, pine apple chunks, orange marmalade, lightly floral, green apples, honey, hint of vanilla beans.
Impressively complex, extremely delicious notes.

Palate Soft and creamy, cream, overripe banana, orange zest, mandarin, buttered toast, coco beans, heavy honey.
Still impressive, fantastic mouthfeel as well.  

Finish Orange zest, sweet lemon, slightly dry and bitter oak, underripe pineapple.
Slight bitterness and lack of depth, a little dissapointing.  

Very good boubon cask whisky. Incredible complexity on the nose and palate. It's a shame the finish is a little weak, it could have been in the higher 90's. Overall this is an extremely good whisky, even though the finish was dissapointing. Maybe a higher strength can boost it a little?  

Overall, 90/100  

Buy again? I'm considering it.

Most similar to:
Balvenie 15 single barrel



Balvenie 17 Doublewood, 43% ABV

I generally like Balvenie. Sure, it's mostly overpriced these days, but almost everything I've tried of theirs seems well-crafted, if sometimes boring in the case of the entry expressions. Today I'm tasting the big brother of the ubiquitous 12-year-old Doublewood. Now, it seems that former master blender David Stewart basically invented cask finishing? Wikipedia doesn't give a source for that claim, but interesting if true!

Nose: honey, caramel, vanilla, shortbread. Faint mustard note.

Taste: Macadamia nut, honey, bourbon but with a nice sherried backbone, toffee. 

Finish: Dry, oaky, a bit tannic, apple, longish.

I dig this a lot more than I was expecting to. It tastes like it really accomplishes what cask finishing is intended to do, whereas with some more entry-level finished malts it just seems like they are trying to smooth over something or add a more interesting element. Here I feel like it's a mature, quality malt, you can taste the bourbon cask, you can taste the sherry cask, and it all works very harmoniously. 90/100



Or do you just have a 60 gallon glencairn?

Doesn't everyone?  



Balvenie DoubleWood 17      

Price: approx. $130
ABV: 43%
Details:

Nose: Malty cereal, nuttiness, vanilla, honey, fruitiness from the spirit (as opposed to the sherry cask) in the form of apple and melon, espresso. A ?soft? nose.
Taste: Honey, nutmeg, cinnamon, dried red fruits, Brazil nuts and almonds, creamy maltiness, butter, cocoa.
Finish: Vanilla, oak, orange zest. Spicy and sweet, but not long or assertive.

Conclusion: I liked how the spirit came through really strong on the nose while the casks came through more on the palate. The finish was a huge let down. I guess that is to be expected when the target audience of this expects something ?smooth? when they throw down $130. This has a very rich taste and nice creaminess as redeeming qualities, but this is a fairly mild whisky. That mildness isn?t helped by the low ABV and (likely) chill-filtration. 

This is the inverse of the 12 year old, with the sherry cask playing a more dominant role than the bourbon cask. This will score slightly higher than its younger sibling, but that is due to the slight edge in complexity and a more unique profile. I enjoy the 12 more than the 17, but objectively, the 17 is a slightly better whisky overall.

Balvenie has been a bit of an interesting journey so far. There is a heavy, nutty maltiness to the spirit with some fruit poking through. The short, fat stills that Balvenie uses contribute that great nutty maltiness that I have encountered throughout. They must make conscious decisions to lighten the spirit at other points in the process to achieve that nice underlying fruitiness. Although I haven?t found these three Balvenie whiskies that have been cask finished to be whiskies that I enjoy, I would like to taste some bourbon barrel Balvenie that would let the nice spirit shine a little more.
Overall: 80 

Note: Scores are based on the quality of the whiskey. Price/value is not included in the score.

Other Balvenie reviews:



Is it just me or can anyone else not get over that awesome Ron Swanson lamp in the background?! 

(Balvenie is great - never tried the Doublewood 17, but the 12 is amongst my favorites - so thank you for the review too). 



REVIEW #83 (re-review): Balvenie 17yo DoubleWood - 43% abv

Nose: partially cooked sour granny smith apple, still has some of that crisp freshness, but it?s also sugary and caramelized a bit, bartlett pear, a more mellow nose than the 12yo DW, but in a sophisticated / mature way?, oak, ginger, dried lemon zest, honey, brown sugar, vanilla, more woodiness, autumn leaves

Taste: similar mouthfeel to the 12yo DW, not quite oily, not quite watery, slow progression, sweet, salt, caramelized sugar, creme brulee, oak, mouth-watering, and drying at the same time somehow, crushed red pepper flakes heat

Finish: immediately upon swallowing: overripe apples, apple cider, then honey, oak, drying, residual crushed red pepper heat.  Lasts a good long while.  Longer than the 12yo DW.

Score: 88/100 (went up 2 points)

Buy a full bottle? maybe

Closing Thoughts: It?s damn good whisky.  But the 15yo Single Barrel Sherry Cask beats this for less money.  Either way, consistent Balvenie quality, and for that reason, it?s become one of my favorite distilleries.



Introduction: It was 2003.  I was 23 years old on a 3-day MacBackpackers tour of Scotland, and up to that point, I didn't drink alcohol.  We stopped at Edradour Distillery on the first day. After the tour (which I didn't get much out of because I wasn't in the mindset to really absorb or care about what I was getting a tour of) our tour guide gets back on the bus with a full bottle of Edradour 10 year old and tells us how in Scotland it's considered rude to refuse someone's hospitality.  He then hands the freshly opened bottle to me and says "You start!"  It was 10am. 

That bottle was passed around the bus for the next 3 days.  My first taste was harsh and bitter, but by day 3 I really started to enjoy the sweetness and murky flavors behind the alcohol.  At the completion of the tour he hands me the rest of the bottle and wishes me well.

Years went by. Every liquor store I walked into, I would scan the top shelf looking for an Edradour tube, but it just wasn't widely known about in the USA, or there just weren't enough bottles to go around.  Seasons pass... long sighs accompany the memory of this whisky... I lose hope of finding it outside of Scotland.

I get married in 2006.  Her aunt asks me what I like to drink.  I tell her about Edradour.  "Edra-what?"  I tell her how hard it is to find and not to bother.  Come Christmastime, she hands me a gift wrapped cylinder.  Not remembering the conversation, my jaw drops and I get all wide eyed and speechless.  To this date it's the most meaningful gift anyone in her family has ever given me.  She drove to every liquor store in the Tri-State area to find it.

So this same aunt continues to buy me a bottle every Christmas until 2013, when I told her not to, as I had 2 full bottles on hand and thought it was plenty.  Go figure, I run out of Edradour for the first time since 2006.  So there I am, Scotchless, and with 6 months til Christmas, and she tells me they don't sell it anymore at the liquor store she's been going to.

I begin my search for an online liquor store that stocks Edradour.  I start thinking maybe I oughta branch out a little bit and try some of the other popular ones.  Having never really tasted any other Scotches, I'm half-worried that I'll find out that Edradour isn't all that great, but I decide to jump in.

One thing leads to another and I find Ralfy, watch all of his videos, find /r/Scotch, dig through every documentary video listed, eventually learn about MasterofMalt's Drinks by the Dram, and convince an old friend to go halves with me on 36 samples of Ralfy's highest rated whiskies, a few from each region of Scotland.

Thus our journey begins.  Let Ralfy be our guide.

What follows is an amateur tasting of 71 whisky samples from MasterofMalt.com over the course of 4 months, listed in the order we sampled them.  We took our time trying to identify the scents and tastes in each before pulling up the corresponding Ralfy Review to see how well we did by comparison.  

DISCLAIMER I'm no expert.  I wasn't able to taste or smell a lot of the flavors many of you describe in the heavily peated whiskies, but I gave it my best shot.  Also, since my Scotch experience is limited to a single Scotch, I had no idea where to start my rating scale at for my first sample.  If I looped through these 71 samples 2 or 3 more times I could probably recalibrate the first tastings, and looking back I'd probably rate them higher now that I know what peat is and have developed a better sense of what to look for in a quality dram.  That being said, these are my raw, first impressions.  I thought it would be interesting to record my development from my uninformed initial reactions to my more experienced appreciation of these fine whiskies. 

REVIEW #3: Balvenie 17 year DoubleWood - 43% abv 

Nose: More mellow than the 12yo DoubleWood, more spices, oak, honey

Taste: Ripe apples, spices, honey, much more subdued than the 12yo

Finish: Similar to the 12yo.  Lingering flavors but the warmth doesn?t hang around very long.

Score: 86/100

Buy a full bottle? No

Closing Thoughts: I might not be skilled enough to appreciate the subtleties of this whisky.  At this price point I?d rather get the more accessible 12yo DoubleWood and 1-2 bottles of other great whiskies.

TO BE CONTINUED?



Nice to see new reviewers!

I'm a little skeptical of your story though: how small of a bus was it that you could pass around a bottle for 3 days and still have anything left?



Welcome and thanks for all the reviews so far! I know it's a lot, but if you could archive your reviews, it would be much appreciated. 

What would you like your flair to say! I already granted you a tartan.



In that case, your tartan has be updated accordingly! Thank you!

Sweet!  Thanks :)



Review #144

Hi folks. I uhh, sorry for being absent so much lately.

The Balvenie Doublewood 17 year, Speyside, 43% abv

Nose: Juicy grapes and cherries. Salty, chewy dried figs, oaked butterscotch. There?s vanilla in there from that first maturation but it seems trounced by the sherry ?shame because I find the sherry to be rather dull here.

Palate: Heavy toffee, chocolate, coffee. Brined oak, ancient dried sherry. Vanilla comes though, more pronounced than the nose? toasted marshmallow. Voluptuously creamy and round mouth feel.

Finish: Drying, medium in length. Bit of generic cough syrup, lingering tannins and miscellaneous oak profiles. Pretty generic in the finish, but good length and moderately satisfying. 

90/100

It really just inches in to the 90?s for me. The palate completely steals the show, I find both the nose and the finish to be oddly generic but the palate is enormously lush which really carries this whisky. I?d love to try this at a higher abv. See also: fucking expensive.



Balvenie is all about the mouth, which usually beats your expectations. The smell (no matter which one) always seems to be salt and raisins, thereabouts. Which I like, so no problem there. I drink it because there are no parts I dislike, and also for sentimental reasons.

Still waiting to find that whisky that tastes like candied orange peel and vanilla bean pods...



candied orange peel

I got that tasting my Aberlour NCF straight from the bottle within seconds of opening it. I still get it, but not as strong.



I'm working through a bottle with coworkers.  We work late nights and typically get together to share a dram about 8:30 or 9:00 before getting back to work.

That's somewhat irrelevant, but I can honestly say that it just isn't worth the price for me.  I like the 12 DW at least as much and it's significantly cheaper.  I was really hoping for something amazing like I felt was delivered by the 17 Madeira, but this just didn't do it for me.  Thanks for the review!
