The Balvenie 12 Doublewood

My first review was of the first bottle of scotch that I bought myself. As the review indicates, it didn't exactly wow me, but it did make for an interesting first review since it's an unusual bottle. Since that bottle didn't really have what I was looking for, I went back and took another stab at picking out a bottle, but I was a little bit better informed this time. Having read through the /r/scotch FAQ, I had a mental list of scotches that had descriptions fitting the flavor profile I was looking for. After spending a good deal of time eyeing several bottles on the shelf, I selected The Balvenie 12 Doublewood.

TL;DR- It was a good call.

Speyside Single Malt

Age: 12 years

Strength: 43% ABV

Wood Cask: Whisky Oak and Sherry Oak

Price Paid: $56.99 USD

Color: Gold. Really a very appealing hue, but that's not nearly as important as the...

Nose: So very nice and sweet. It has a little honey, maybe some syrup (more like high fructose corn syrup than maple syrup). All I know is it smells like I should be pouring it on a stack of pancakes. It get me salivating a little, because I'm sure it's going to be wonderful on the...

Palate: Man am I diggin the sweetness! It delivers exactly what the nose promised. Honey whisky is marketed towards people with a sweet tooth who want to like whisky, but this is what a whisky lover ought to drink if they're feeling some honey. It's funny though, it may be syrupy on the palate, but certainly not in the...

Body: This is medium bodied to me, leaning more towards light than heavy. I don't get any oiliness, presumably because of the chill filtration. That's OK though, it seems fitting for this scotch. As it settled on my tongue, it's time for the...

Finish: Considering that it has a little bite for a 43% ABV whisky, it fades a bit quickly. Definitely none of the hot finish that the stronger stuff has. But the sweetness lingers, and that's really the important thing here, isn't it?

Summary: I think one of the things I like about this scotch is that it's not good in spite of being on the younger end, it's good because it's on the younger end. The lesser time in the barrel truly allows this scotch to flaunt the predominant malt characters of spirits distilled at The Balvenie. You get that raw sweetness that you get from honey straight from the comb or syrup right from the tap. 12 years is plenty of time to promote the good stuff without dulling the more in-your-face flavors. That being said, though it does what it does well, it's not particularly intricate or nuanced. Being the one trick pony that it is, it now deserves a...

Score: 85/100 (Right up my alley)

As a final note, I really like what I've had from The Balvenie. The 14 year Caribbean Cask is a solid step up from the 12 doublewood, and the 15 single barrel is excellent. The 17 double wood, however, was a bit of a disappointment. It was past it's prime. Over matured. Gone senile. The point I made in the summary of this review is most assuredly not true of the 17 doublewood. Instead, the oaky flavors imparted during the additional 5 year in the barrel only dull the sweetness and left me with a very meh feeling. I can honestly say I like this one better.

Now I just gotta try that Portwood...

Edit: Review #2



That's a tough question. First off, I only just started reviewing, and though this was my second buy I got it at the beginning of the summer and have picked up a couple bottles since. My dad got me Glenfiddich 18 for my birthday, which is a fantastic scotch if you like that well aged oakiness. My roommate got me the Glenmorangie sampler for my birthday (100ml bottles of the 10 year original, 12 year La Santa, 12 year Quinta Ruban, and 12 year Nectar D'or), and I liked the port finished Quinta Ruban best so that was my next purchase. I got my hands on Macallan Cask Strength, which is absolutely phenomenal, and the cask strength sherry bombs by Aberlour and Glenfarclas (the A'bunadh and 105, respectively) are on my wish list. I got a cheap but decent sherried scotch called Grangestone 12 from Total Wine so I had something less expensive to sip on when I'm feeling some whisky but don't want to crack open and of the nicer bottles. My most recent scotch buy is the Aberlour NCF, which is fantastic. 

So yeah, to actually answer your question, I found that a convenient liquor store has The Balvenie 14 Caribbean Cask and 15 Single Barrel on sale for $46.99 and $64.99, so they're looking like good candidates for my next bottle. 



Greetings Scotchit! Just here to give you a quick bar review of a Scotchit standard. I've actually tried a lot of Balvenies, but I've never reviewed their standard offering, which is why I selected this one as a nightcap.

Any good? Let me tell you!

Balvenie 12 DoubleWood
Speyside, chill-filtered?, E150?, 4cl dram at a bar

Nose: strong bourbon influence, vanilla, sweet sherry, apples and plums, oak and honey

Very sweet. Bourbon influence is extremely clearon the nose. That plum note is one that a friend picked out, but it's very much there when it's been brought to your attention.

Taste: bitter oak and sweet vanilla, oloroso sherry and dark sugar, honey and malted barley

Sweet and bitter, mainly. Kind of a disappointment after the rich nose.

Finish: medium length, bitter oak tannins, oloroso sherry and sweet malt, honey and banana

Sweet and bitter, again. More bitter than the palate, even.

Summary: I think I've dismissed this one prematurely, perhaps even underrated it slightly. I've never formally reviewed it, but I quite enjoyed this. It's very drinkable and "smooth". The nose is gorgeous, but the rest is somewhat lacklustre.

It's not going to blow your mind, but it's a nice, sweet and unchallenging malt.

Score: 80/100
Very decent.

Previous Balvenie reviews:

Balvenie 12 Signature - 83/100

Balvenie 14 Caribbean Cask - 83/100

Balvenie 14 Golden Cask - 82/100

Balvenie 15 Single Barrel - 80/100

Balvenie PortWood 1993 - 86/100



I attended Balvenie's Rare Craft exhibit in Chicago last week and this was one of the two floor whiskies. It was decent, but the crowd was gathered at the Caribbean Cask table, where it belonged. 

(Also, the even was shitty. Two+ hours and maybe 2.25oz of whisky. They didn't even have any available to buy.
)



It's just not very sherried, is all. 

I don't think any of the Balvenies are that great. Portwood and 12 SB left and I'll have exhausted their standard range (sub-200).



I was pretty disappointed, and I think I put my review around 82

Not meaning to judge your scoring style, but as a casual visitor to this sub, I find that mindset to be confusing. If something is disappointing, surely it deserves a lower score? That mark would gain a student a first-class degree.



It's just easier to go with it than try to change the scoring system of 100+ active reviewers. 

My scores are on the Scotchit scale, where <70 is "never buy", 70-80 is "buy if you like this style", 80-90 is "try once" and >90 is "legendary". 

I even wrote a program to rejiggle the scores to the full 0-100 range, but it didn't gather much steam.



Balvenie DoubleWood 12

(40%, refill American oak matured + finished in first fill European oak sherry casks)

?

For review #100, thought I?d go back to the first scotch that I ever enjoyed (many moons ago). It wasn?t the first whisky I?d ever tried, but it was definitely the first one I remember that didn?t just taste like burning. 

Thanks to u/Devoz for conjuring this one out of thin air! Must have been the new wand...

?

Nose: Malt, honey, oak, vanilla, pear, apple, strawberry, a dusting of baking spices

Taste: Oak, vanilla cake, caramel, honey butter, clove, hint of citrus

Finish: Oak, nutmeg, black pepper

? 

A light but pretty dynamic nose, this hits right away with notes of malt, honey and oak. Fresh fruits and a light spice aren?t far behind. The taste starts off oaky, with some sweet yet slightly restrained creamy flavours. With time a little bit of spice develops on the tongue. The finish seems dominated by (slightly bitter) oak with some accompanying spice. Weak though? the notes are fleeting and fade quickly.

Used to make a great recommendation for a starter whisky when the price was reasonable. As an intro, I still think it has potential as one of the best? it?s light and inoffensive, without any technical flaws or polarizing love/hate notes. Sadly the price is now the unpalatable part of the experience. Though sadly having ?outgrown? this one, I?ll always remember it fondly in memory as the first example of Scotch I connected with and found tasty back in the day.

?

77/100

As a quick aside, well here we are? #100 is in the books. When I first started reviewing 8 months ago, it was at the encouragement of a couple of the folks here. I thought I?d maybe do a handful (think the goal was 1-2 a month) but never thought I?d end up here. 

In any case, thanks to all those who encouraged me to start and supported (enabled) me along the way, as well as those who have taken the time out of their days since then to read and comment along the way. Though the reviews help me to connect more with the drink, it?s you guys who make it fun! Happy New Year!



I love this whisky. I'm surprised how low your rate it. However this reminds me how subjective all of this is and how unhelpful? reading individual reviews is (for me at least). 

I really have to try things for myself or find someone reviewing "whatever" (whisky, wine, restaurants, movies, books) whose tastes/opinions most consistently match or predict my own. A consensus of many people has better predictive value for me, but even that often fails. That's OK. We obviously don't have to like/prefer the same things. 



To be fair, it depends what else you've had to provide additional frames of reference. Had I "scored" this one a year or two ago, I'm sure it would have ended up much higher. But with all the cask strength and single cask drams I've had over the last little while, I've just found any chill-filtered, low ABV expressions to be a little bland and very lacking in the taste/finish for me.  

Like I said, I didn't find any technical flaws or quirks so it still sits for me as a solid intro and/or daily dram. It just doesn't excite enough to sit any higher for me at this point in time. You're quite right though... it is very subjective to read scores based on individual preference.



I find it's a great whisky for when you want a technically excellent but totally unobtrusive Scotch. It's very well made, balanced, tastes great and completely one-dimensional. If you hunt for complexity in the nose, delivery or (especially) the finish, you simply won't find it.

The issue for me is the price is out-of-whack with what you get. Yes, the current Macallan 12 isn't as refined, but it has a more interesting flavor profile for (in my area) 10 bucks less. For that additional cash, there are better options (hell, I just picked up a superb GlenGoyne 15 on sale for nearly the same price). If it's on the shelf, I'll take even post-restart GlenDronach 12 every time.



There's a very active community of whisky sample swappers here. Works well for being able to try a huge variety of things without necessarily having to buy a bottle of everything yourself. Highly recommend you check out:

r/whiskyinventory to see what people are posting up in their inventories to set up swaps

r/ScotchSwap to post results of swaps (or see what others have swapped) 

The typical bottles are 2 oz Boston rounds that people buy. Hope that helps.



Balvenie Doublewood 12 year.  86 proof.  

oak casks, then european sherry for a few months. plain unremarkable

70/100



Balvenie Doublewood 12

Speyside, 40%

*color: warm amber

*nose: dough, oranges, honey

*taste: dough, oranges, hazel, sherry, oak

*finish: warm, but short, doesn't linger

This was one of my first bottles I bought and I was (an am) very pleased. Sweet, mild, transparent malt, ideal for beginners. I would buy it again, but first I want to try others from the wide range of Balvenie.

86/100



I was going through some old tasting notes and realised I'd never posted this one on here. This is froma  bottle I bought about 3 years ago (back when I was still a student and could only afford one at a time) and killed about 2 years ago. I bought on a special of some sort, was usually out of my price range back then.

Aged 12 years, 40% ABV, Matured in Sherry & Bourbon casks, Coloured and Chill filtered

Nose: A strong malt note, some woods supporting it. Some fruitiness behind that. Cinnamon, apples, pears stewed in red wine.

Palate: A hit of oakiness right off the bat, spicy vanilla toffee, something else that I can't put my finger on, possibly maple syrup.

Finish: Deep, sweet, metallic finish  More stewed fruits, a hint of pepper or nutmeg. 

Rating: 81/100

In some markets this whisky can be over priced due to the brand popularity, but a good speyside malt nonetheless. Not my favourite, but a great daily dram is you're into this type of whisky. 



Balvenie 12 Doublewood is one of the best known, and most widely available single malts out there (i.e., we probably don't need another review of it, but whatever) - not that it's that big of a surprise, given that it's part of the same corporate entity as Glenfiddich, and has the marketing and distribution muscle to go with it. Balvenie is also one of the few distilleries that does their own maltings (not sure if it's 100% or just a portion, but I think just a portion) and has their own cooperage. Anyway, this is (one of) their base expressions, aged first in "traditional whisky oak casks" - which I read as bourbon cask maturation - followed by a few months in European Oak Sherry Casks.

43% abv

Nose - Quite sweet smelling - honey, vanilla, pear, apple, berries. Lots of cloves. Well integrated lighter/darker fruit. Slightly creamy. 

Taste - Palate entry is sweet and honeyed, developing into the pear/apple/berry fruitiness I picked up on the nose, along with some vanilla and a touch of liquorice. Just a hint of rubbing alcohol knocks it down slightly for me. Medium body, silky smooth texture.

Finish - Short to medium length, but really pretty good for 43% - Stays with the fruit and vanilla, developing into some lingering tangy citrus (blood orange, mmm) and mild spice.

This one is sweet, fruity, smooth, accessible, and easy to drink a ton of. Due to the types of casks used, this kind of seems to be a jack of all (non-peated) trades - however, master of none. Everything about this is solid, but nothing really wows me - it's just easy, and pleasant to drink.

86/100

Edited for spelling.



Just got a bottle Friday, my first try of this dram, been trying it out. I really agree with your final assessment: really nice, easy, an pleasant, but also nothing that "wows" me.

I may be biased because my only other bottle right now is Ardbeg Uigedail...

Great dram anyway. Thanks for the review!



I have a strategic reserve of The Balvenie 12 Doublewood, in case I do something stupid and upset the lady. We fell in love in the mountains drinking this stuff, so hopefully I can use it (at least once) as a get-out-of-the-doghouse-free card.

Well, not free exactly. It costs a few dollars.



Went to a martini bar with my gf and all they had for scotch was Glenfiddich  12 and The Balvenie 12 Doublewood. Chose the latter and made some mental notes as I was enjoying it. Won't be the most comprehensive review as a result!

Appearance: pretty dark, though the lighting was very dark in there too. couldn't tell if it's the different woods affecting colour or if it has artificial colouring in it. 

Nose:  sweet nose with fruity notes. honey, vanilla. can smell the sherry

Taste: again very sweet. Pear taste is up front... even my gf who doesn't drink scotch tasted pears. honey, vanilla, sherry, apples. 

Finish: short and sweet. didn't seem to last, and with a sip of water it was gone. 

tasty dram, but left me with a hankering for something stronger. 

Rating: 80/100



but left me with a hankering for something stronger. 

Ive always thought Balvenie DW would be incredible at cask strength. Too bad.



Maybe I need to try this stuff while/after I'm eating something sweet, to see if that changes my mind on it.  I just shoved this bottle to the back of my liquor cabinet. . .when I opened it up I thought it was much better and that I'd found my daily dram (it's only $29 locally), but as the bottle diminished so did my enthusiasm for the DW.  All I get anymore is a sickly sweet honey taste.  I've heard the SBs tend to be much better, so I think I'll keep an eye out for those instead.  

You're right about that finish, it's amazingly (disappointingly) short!  Nice review!



Balvenie. If there was ever a malt that would really be helped by being unchillfiltered, 46% minimum and natural colour, I think it would be this. At it's best, it's a fantastic whisky. In fact one of my few 90 point whiskies was a Balvenie. (Sigh) Alas! Most of it is meant for the malty mass market.

?

Balvenie 12 year old Doublewood 40%

Colour: E150a (Refill barrels for 10 years, Sherry for 2. Don't imagine they're 1st fill though.)

Body: Light/Medium

Nose: Light, fruity and malty. Some nut, light oakiness, some light sherry sweetness. Lots of honey and vanilla.

Taste: Very silky and (shudders) smooth mouthfeel. Fruity and sweet,  vanilla and honey, a bourbon waxineess, some herbal spice. Actually very bourbon-y for a sherry finish.

Finish: Short length. A bit of bitter coffee.

Notes: Perfectly acceptable and perfectly boring.

66/100

?




Network Average: 74.4

Best Score: 91

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



44 was Jameson Caskmates. Not reviewed on here yet. Most of my reviews aren't actually.

91 was Bowmore 1987 Wemyss and Ardbeg 1991 Master of Malt. Both of which I have reviewed on here.

Should be able to find it here



Ha Caskmates.  I actually didn't find that bad at all.   I didn't go rush out buy it, but far from the worst whisky I've had.  

Edit:. Actually I take that back.  In the company you have reviewed yes it's the worst whisky.  I was more thinking in general.



A little change of pace for everyone, and a break from some Islay's for a moment. Don't worry, more Islay's to come, but for the time being, let's stroll into Speyside.

I had a dram recently while out for my wife's birthday at e11even, in Toronto. And the great food needed to be pair with a great dram, so of course I ordered the Glenlivet 16 Nadurra... which they were out of. So I considered ordering the George Stagg 2012... which would have been mean to my father, as he was driving and is more of a Bourbon fan than I am. And they were out of Talisker 25 year.

Guess I was "stuck" with the Balvenie Doublewood 12 year. Also my gold shoes don't really fit and I can't fit all of my $100 bills in my wallet.

I have an odd relationship with Balvenie. They are usually pricey where I live, and I see a lot of reviews up here for them, so I typically don't order or review them. On the other hand, it was the Balvenie 30 sample that was sent to me that started me on reviews, and this is Scotch review #39, so part of me feels like I owe them somehow. Let's see how I enjoy the 12 year.

Abv: 40%

Region: Speyside

Price: $72.95 (CAD) for a 750ml

Colour: Old lightbulb

Nose: Strawberry, oak, grass, honeysuckle, perfume

There's a nice light strawberry and perfume flavour here. It's quite calming, and pairs nicely with my beef ribs. Nothing too pungent though. 40% strikes again.

Taste: Strawberry, jalape?o, honey, agave syrup, lemon, cumin, lime

The sherry influence starts out strong, though the bourbon cask walks up and takes the front as time goes on, only leaving a honey note. Very typical tastes, nothing out there or odd about this one.

Finish: Flowers, tart cherry, dry, applewood smoke, arugula, oak

Medium in length, the sherry cask has some aspects in here again, however there's not spices that I'm used to. I'm almost missing them, and wish this was in the sherry cask longer. That being said it still has a nice, usual finish to it, with more floral than I typically drink.

Conclusion: There's nothing that I can brag about or argue about for this Scotch. It hits the right notes, but could be a high Abv. It has some sherry influence, but not enough. I'd go so far as to say this is what I'd serve someone new to Scotch. I can point to this and say "There's the usual flavours in that, and if you're interested, try this".

80/100



Yeah I agree with you on a lot of the points, it's a nice Scotch, nothing you would brag about to someone, but good enough and also inexpensive enough (at least where I live) that it's an easy sell to have on the shelf.  A 46% version of this would probably bring the score up a decent amount of points, but it's still a great dram for someone who's just starting out and isn't sure if they'll like Scotch.  

I will have to look out for that jalape?o note next time though, I don't think I've ever gotten that from this one.



It's one of those Scotches like Highland Park 12. It's an all around whisky, and it's not too pricey. You can serve it to a peat head, a sherry head, a speysider or someone who like Bourbon and they'll all agree that it's pretty inoffensive.

It's the Jeff Foxworthy of Scotch.



I kind of like this one. Maybe because my local purveyor seems to have it on sale a lot. :)

I've been avoiding this sub like the plague for a while, since the meds I'm currently on means no alcohol. At all. I'm counting the days, looking at my collection with longing....
