Another sample from my swap with UncleTobys.

Balvenie 15 Year Old Single Barrel. Single Speyside malt, aged 15 years in cask #8788 at the Balvenie distillery. Bottled at 47.8% ABV, local bottle price: $113 for 700mL.

Nose: A bigger, bolder version of the 12. Typical Balvenie honey out in force, pears and shortbread. Dried red fruits suggest sherry influence, yet its influence is far subtler than the other notable sherried Speysides like Glenfarclas and Aberlour. 

Palate: Creamy flavour profile of soft vanilla and light citrus. Full-flavoured at a proper strength.

Finish: And there?s the spicy finish. Oak and white pepper. A hint of the citrus, aniseed, and some saltiness.

It?s probably not as special or unique as a single-barrel bottling would suggest (although the flipside is I bet it?s less of a gamble on quality). It?s interesting and complex, but it didn?t quite blow my socks off as much as the hype here led me to believe it might. Nonetheless, it is a very well-crafted whisky, and perfect for any lover of Speyside.

84/100



Lets see if I make anymore spelling mistakes..

To cheer myself up recently I got a drinks by the dram set... and then got a Balvenie miniatures sample to make a fun vertical tasting. Here are the results.

Balvenie 12 Doublewood - 40%

Got to be honest, I've never really been a fan of this.

Balvenie 12 Signature - 40%

A bit more sweet but less sickly than the double wood if that makes sense. There are less flavours but they?re bigger and better balanced.

Balvenie 15 Single Barrel - 47.8%

This one?s gooood, by far the best of the bunch. More flavour that punches you in the face (probably due to it being 47%).

Balvenie 17 Doublewood - 43%

Less sweet, fairly different to the others.. But nowhere near as good as the 15 single barrel.



Last night I grabbed from my box of blind samples to compose yet another semi-blind review.  I opened it up and poured off half the contents.  In so doing, I was disappointed to have grabbed a bourbon by luck of the draw, cause I really was in the mood for a scotch.  But I bravely soldiered on, for science.  My thanks to /u/xpentakx for the sample.

Initial Impressions: oak, weak or mild bourbon

Nose: oranges, oak, ethanol, bitter caramel, something else I can't identify.

Taste: watery entry, with sugar that turns rapidly to orange/caramel/vanilla. Black pepper and cinnamon come in and the heat builds longer than expected, to a crescendo of ... more of the same orange caramel. It's not overly sweet, but there's definitely a sweetness present. Some sewing machine oil too. I'm catching very little vanilla, a tiny bit of oak (dry, but not old) and no barrel char. 

Finish: a flash of an orange cream candy, chased swiftly away by a hot flare of alcohol burn. That burn lingers long, finally turning to an acidic late aftertaste sits on the mid-to-back of the tongue and is not entirely pleasant. 

It's bourbon, what pleasantries were present on the nose are eliminated by the finish. It tastes young but it's OK..

Score: 80.49/100

OK, that was fun. I'm leaving the above blind notes completely untouched for your amusement. Rather than my usual approach of editing slightly, or noting the parts of each segment that are after the reveal, I'll do a completely separate type up

There was one point (I forget if it was nose or taste) where I wanted to say "apples" but then I lost it a split second later. That should have been a clue!

I'm pretty sure the mystery smell in the nose is some derivative of malt or barely, but I'm still not quite sure what name to give it. The bourbon casks come through with authority. I've found apples by inhaling the scenes over my tongue rather than my nose, but the oranges remain. MoM says "mixed peel" I'm comfortable with that

I should have taken a hint in the lack of barrel char in the taste, but the remainder of my notes pretty much stand as written. I'm not at all sure I'd have used the same words if I was thinking scotch instead of bourbon, but now that I've tasted what I tasted, I can't seem to untaste any of it.

The finish is growing on me as I progress, and I think my blind score is definitely lower than a score in knowledge would have been. It feels dishonest, however, to revise the score, so it remains

But I'd buy a bottle, I think



First, start off with this great document created by the community and authored by texacer. (If you haven't seen it already)

McCallan 12 sucks I agree.  My personal recommendation is to try either Benromach 10 or Highland Park 12. These have a sweetness from the malt and sherry finish.  But, also a touch of peat to give them a little smoke flavor.  Think of them as the malt/sherry replacing the corn sweetness and the peat/smoke replacing the barrel char in bourbon.

An inexpensive speysider (Like Balvenie) to try is Speyburn 10, which is better than Glenlivet IMHO and less $.  Another readily available Speysider to try is Glenfiddich 15.  It's bottled at 40%, but the flavor doesn't taste like it.  Great malty, apple , oak profile with a sherry fruity influence.

I hope this helps.  I started as a scotch drinker first, then went to bourbon/rye.  So, I'm the opposite of you.



I love Balveine 15 SB.  It's my favorite bourbon. :D 

So I buy them on sight if they are reasonably priced.



yeah I could see how you might think this was a bourbon. No peat or sherry whatsoever. I also found that with my bottle, oxidation made a difference. It got a lot better about 1/3 of the way into it. Not sure if you got a pour off a freshly opened bottle or not.

My buddy and I have 3 bottles of this from different barrels and we're going to do a side-by-side-by-side on Saturday to taste the barrel variation. I'll try to take some notes and post them here.



So luck was on your side since you were in the mood for scotch.

I know that single barrels are variable but this one has a lot of orange notes.  The one bottle I finished a couple years ago had more honey and vanilla though I did detect oranges as the bottle level went down.  The brand ambassadors at Balvenie do like to say that the Single Barrels are still aiming for a similar taste profile but I must say there is still plenty of taste variations.



A solid 11" limp

I'd go with 'A full 11" limp' - the solid/limp image is a bit imprecise.   Also, "vintage" and "more ice" might distract a local network reader more than another Mammoth Cock dream.  I'm pretty sure there's a link to more Mammoth Cock dreams in the sidebar.



Balvenie 15 Single Barrel

Age: 15 years

Strength: 47.8%

Cask #5672

Color: Sandy brown

Nose: Vanilla, oak, spice

Palate: That Balvenie-ness that I love, honey and vanilla, but with more oak than the younger offerings. It's not overpowering though, and still has the vigor of the younger expressions.

Body: A little heat, but with the typical light Balvenie mouthfeel.

Finish: The spice hangs out for awhile, but not a great while. 

Summary: This is a lovely step up from the Doublewood. It retains the honey sweetness that draws people to Balvenie, but offers more complexity. I'm curious how much variation there is from barrel to barrel. 

Score: 88/100 (Excellent)

Edit: Scotch Review #11

Whisky Review #15



Greetings Scotchiteers! I promised myself I'd do a review today, because I've been slacking on them since I hit 60, and when I came home I found out my Dark Souls save game had been corrupted, so I didn't even have a distraction. 

This is the first (of many) of the 6cl (double what Master of Malt give!) samples I ordered from Whiskysite.nl a few weeks back. Today, we'll be looking at Balvenie 15 Single Barrel, the craftiest of craft whiskies that The Balvenie (god I hate that "The") releases. 

Is it any good? I have no idea! Let's find out...

Balvenie 15 Single Barrel
Speyside, 47.8% ABV, NCF, no E150, cask #8711

Nose: obvious oak and vanilla, slightly unripe bananas, slightly sour apples, malted barley, slight saltiness

A very crisp, classic and slightly sour unsherried Speyside nose. Not sour to the degree of Glenfiddich, but in that ballpark. The notes in this are very clearly defined - from the slightly sour/bitter oak note, the fruitiness and especially the malted barley providing a base for all the rest. A surprising salty note that I might be imagining, but don't think I am.

Taste: surprisingly thin body, bitter oak and vanilla, banana and brown sugar, green apples and malted barley, white pepper prickles

This has me questioning my Golden Cask review a bit, since I may have assigned more importance to the finish than the spirit - even this raw form of Balvenie has many of those rum-like notes, and as such this is a fascinating comparison. A bit too much bitter oak makes my face scrunch up just a tad when sipping this, though. 

Finish: medium length, brown sugar, vanilla and oak tannins, lingering barley sweetness

And the bitter note sticks around. Otherwise, it's pretty much in line with what you'd expect based on the nose and palate. 

Summary: As reddbdbdbdb has a tendency to point out, I don't particularly like bitterness. I always feel that it ruins the sippability of a whisky in a most unfortunate way, and here I can't help but think back to the 12 Signature and want single barrels of that. Maybe the 12 Single Barrel First Fill would fit me better? 

In any case, I can't help but applaud The Balvenie - presentation is spot on and I love the single cask nature of this. The flavour profile is excellently balanced right out of the cask and shows that the distillers are doing the right thing, but it just ain't my thang. Sorry bros. Keep being cool, though.

Score: 80/100
Mr. Bitter Strikes Back.



That's both awesome for you and depressing for me at the same time :)

I can get the 12 Single Barrel for under $50 here, but not the 15.

The 15 is my favorite drink and I typically get 2 to 3 bottles a month.

I might just consider moving to MD as that alone would greatly affect my cost of living :)



I almost chose this for the October CR. Wow! I was expecting this spirit to be a bit darker in color for some reason. It's very pale like an Islay, I still need to give this one a shot to flush out my Balvenie experience.

Dude! Your Dark Souls save got corrupted? That is terrible! That game is such an uphill battle. How far into it were you?



Not that far, just struggling with Undead Parish gargoyle. I can probably make it back there in a few hours.

The game's funny like that - first time around, takes you forever, because you don't know what to expect from enemies, maps, etc. Second time around? Totally trivial.



Balvenie 15 Single Barrel, 47.8% ABV

Cask #8788, bottle #209

Colour: Banana.

Nose: Ripe bananas. Vanilla, butterscotch and cinnamon. Candy floss and some floral notes.

Taste: Banana bread with cream. Buttery and smooth. Citrus rind, rum and honey.

Finish: Banana essence. Hot and tangy. Long and spicy.

I don't know if my nose and tongue are weird because I have had this with a few different people and not one of them had the same banana-rific experience as me. All I can taste and smell are bananas. I like bananas so I don't really mind. Good scotch!

88/100

Thanks for reading.

Sneak peek of review 21.



It's very strange.

...so strange one might even say, "it's bananas!"



Insert creative banana/phallic joke here

Seriously though, thanks for the reviews! This one is a definite favorite of mine.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  A couple days ago I put up my Glenfiddich 15 review.  I mentioned it was my 2nd whisky of the night when I went to a local bar.  Well the first glass was The Balvenie 15 year old Single Cask.  47.8% abv.

I enjoyed this whisky so much I went out the next day and bought a bottle of it.  I'm aware that no two cask's of this are the same but I'm pretty sure I got it from where they did locally.  my favorite of the couple Bavenie that I've had so far.

94/100



Between Nose and Taste, I am completely sold on this. I love all of those flavors. I buy Balvenie 12 year as my go to brand, but I've never bought any of their special releases. This sounds wonderful. Thank you for doing this.

BTW, already called my local store and they have it! woohoo!

One question, why does a signle cask make this special? Sorry if this is a silly question. I am new to this.



when a distillery makes say Glenfiddich 12, the batch they make on that day is put into a lot of barrels.  each barrel will produce different results depending on the wood  or placing in the distillery.  its up to the master blender to take all the different barrels and mix them together to get the intended result.   So Glenfiddich 12 is a single malt but also blended from lots of different barrels in such a way that it makes it taste and smell the same from batch to batch.  

This line of Balvenie skips the malt blending and just bottles straight from each cask.  which means they will all taste slightly different.



TIL something new. Thank you for a great explanation.

On a side note, I believe my SO is now getting this for me for Valentines Day. I'm excited!



Balvenie Single Barrel 15

Speyside, 47.8%

color: pale gold with a silver-green tint

nose: apricots, vanilla, honey, hints of vinegar and chlorine

taste: oak, vanilla, licorice, vinegar

finish: custard, caramel, coconut, goes up the nose like mustard or wasabi

Very vanilla dominated. Lot of fruit notes. The higher ABV does good. No sherry as the other Balvenies.

85/100



Balvenie, for those of you who don?t know, is a Speyside distillery, part of the same company as Glenfiddich. This is an older bottling, when this used to come from a single bourbon cask. I got lucky when I stumbled upon this one, as it was old enough they used some 18 year old whisky for a 15 year old brand, as it was barreled 6/10/89, and bottled 1/5/08 (I assume that?s European date formatting, so Oct. 6 ?89 and May 1 ?08 is what I think the dates mean). Bottle 174 from cask 13547.

47.8% abv. Non chill-filtered.

Nose - Honey, vanilla creme, lemon zest, clove, black pepper, apples baked with brown sugar and cinnamon. Sightly musty. Fairly rich aroma, and well balanced - a very nice example of what a bourbon cask can bring to a whisky given enough time.

Taste - Lemon zest, apple pie, vanilla creme, honey, picking up some drying oaky spices - ginger, cinnamon, and black pepper - as it develops. Again, very nicely integrated and balanced. Kind of a thick, borderline viscous feel to it, in a good way - I wouldn?t call it heavy, though.

Finish - Clove, lemon zest, ginger, honey, black pepper, with the spices amplifying a bit before fading. Fairly gentle finish, but does linger a while.

This is quite tasty, and dangerously easy to drink - there?s nothing ?big? or in your face here, but that?s not really what Balvenie does. It?s almost like it was created with a certain flavor profile in mind, though since it?s a single barrel I can?t see how that would have happened (aside from David Stewart picking out a rather nice barrel). If I could get this for $64 again I?d be buying a lot more Balvenie.

90/100



Just came off one of those weeks where I was too busy for my own good. Between work, hanging out with friends, keeping up with my Tomatin mega review, D&D, a few late nights, and traveling across the worst city for traffic in North America far too many times during some of the worst accident seasons we've ever had, I was pooped.

I was able to finish one review on Friday and then fell asleep watching Q.I. before I could get to the others.

The time change hasn't helped that.

What I'm saying is, blah blah dick joke, blah blah some joke about my sexuality, blah blah I'm not a real reviewer until I've finished some recommended lists blah blah I'm review Balvenie 15 year Single Barrel.

Aged in single ex-bourbon casks, this limited edition, higher than normal Alc. content beast is a main stay of most tasters. Only 350 hand-numbered bottles are brought out each year.

Take that, limited edition bourbons with 48,000 bottles!

A friend of mine picked up a masters of malt order for me when she was coming back. She's awesome.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Region: Speyside

Abv: 47.8%

Colour: Light yellow

Nose: Honey, tangerine, lemon curd, brown sugar, grapes, vanilla, ginger, floral

There's... hmmm... need to reset brain... resetting brain... fatal error, you're still not really that awake or functioning. 

Okay... there's elements here that are purely Balvenie. The floral elements, the fruit, some vanilla, however this has more of a sour element to it, like sniffing lemon curd.

Taste: Curry, vanilla, orange, pepper, weak unripe mango, radish

Very different initial hit of earth that sticks around. Very disjoint. Much earth and heat. So un-wow.

It's not bitter, it's just... not a group of flavours I like together? You can tell there's quality, I just don't really like the mixture of flavours.

Finish: Earth, plum, salami, apple, white vinegar, dill, lemon rind

Ouch. Bad. Pain.

Lots of earth, and there's a vinegar and dill element that tastes like pickle brine. Again, there's quality in this, but that's like offering me the best pickled beets on the planet  from the greatest preserver; I'm not going to enjoy it.

Conclusion: I'm not a fan of this one. First off, don't take that to mean it's bad, it's just... not my cup of tea. Everything about it is quality; good mouth feel, great Abv, clear flavours, good nose, different than other Balvenies yet still has some of their character. That all said, I just don't like it.

My wife commented that she found the flavours disjoint as well, and thinks I should rate it lower. I'm of the mind that I can still drink it and enjoy it for the quality, so the number is higher.

77/100

Scotch review #151, Speyside #47

Other Balvenie reviews:

Balvenie DoubleWood 12 year

Balvenie Carribean Cask 14 year

Balvenie 17 DoubleWood

Balvenie 17 Peated Cask

Balvenie 21 year Portwood

Balvenie 30 year old



Nice review, man!  I've never wanted to roll the dice with this bottle, though I does interest me. . .probably have to try this at a bar sometime and be happy with that.

oh, and your dick jokes are the best.  



According to the site, it's 350 bottles per year:

https://www.thebalvenie.com/our-range/single-barrel-15-aged-15-years

And I think the fact that it's all over the place may say as to why it's in all the stores and not bought out.