This bottle is on sale this month, with a price increase above the regular retail price scheduled immediately after.  It'll never be $189.99 again, so I hastened to acquire a sample and see what I think.  Thanks for hooking me up in a hurry /u/Dramonaut!

Initial Impression: Christmas cookies

Appearance: I don't normally stop off here, but this pour has long legs, and a lot more tears than I recall seeing on my glass ever before.

Nose: malt forward initially, this opens up to grapes and cinnamon sugar. It's really quite a weak nose, very challenging to pick anything out. I do wish those Christmas cookies I smelled off the pour would reemerge. Something musty, faint apples, and moderate dry oak start to emerge. 

Nose 2.0: it's been sitting now for around 30 minutes. The nose is decidedly stronger, with musty grapes turning to a distinct port wine smell, and cinnamon giving way to a mild-side-of-medium alcohol heat. Dry oak and apples still lurk in the background, joined now by subtle vanilla and sweet crisp pears. The malt forward never left the whole time. I am really glad I had to walk away that half hour, highly recommended. 

Taste: initial entry is very dry, a hint of port grapes and laden with oak. Cinnamon and a must flavor similar to my recollections of Highland Park Dark Origins and Oban 14. Not at all sweet from either sugar or fruit, which is a surprising departure from the nose. Coffee, mixed nuts, a touch of bile, black pepper spice...

Finish: the black pepper spice carries over here, strengthens to a decent burn, then drifts into a tannins and tart green fruit aftertaste, which turns sweeter late.

The second nose is king here, with the rest being meh.  I had to fight my inclination to give it at least a B- for the name and age.  I still feel like I might have gone lower blind, but I'll grant it high end of average with a C+.

Score: 78/100

Would I buy it (not again, I've never actually bought it)?  eh.... I'm torn only because it's going away.  But for $30 less I can get a tastier Glenlivet of the same age.  I'll pass.... unless a mood strikes when I am in the store next week.



One of the first expensive scotches that I really wanted to try was the Balvenie 21 Portwood, since the 12 Doublewood was the first bottle I bought myself that I really liked (second bottle purchased overall, since the first was a bust). I ended up trying it at the Balvenie Rare Craft event in DC over a year ago, but by the time I got to the master class tasting portion of the event where I got to taste it I was already a few too many drams into the night. 

Fortunately, /u/Dramonaut was nice enough to swap me a sample for a more critical analysis this time around, and so now it's getting a proper review. 

Balvenie 21 Portwood

Strength: 43%

Color: Brown. 

Nose: Fruity, floral, and fragrant. It smells like Balvenie spirit, but with strawberry, subtle oak, and honeysuckle. 

Palate: Balvenie honey? is there, of course, but the port influence comes through. Juicy figs and dark berries. Vanilla cream and milky chocolate. The woody notes from all that time in the barrel are subtle at first. 

Finish: ...but become dominant in the finish. Toasty smoke, like filtered and sweetened tobacco that is smooth and silky. 

Summary: Balvenie has a well executed and tasty dram here. I think this would've been a slam dunk for me earlier in my journey through scotch, but it isn't quite as bold as I'd like. Still, it is wonderfully complex and interesting, showcasing the spirit, the port influence, and the years in the barrel. 

Score: 89/100 

Scotch Review #83

Whisky Review #173

@review_bot scotch 'Balvenie'



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Balvenie reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Nice glass. What do you want for it? J/k. 

Have you tried the Caribbean cask?



Yep, look at review bot's comment for the link. 

I got the glencairn from the event I mentioned in my review. I think I ended up with three: the one in the picture, one that lives at my girlfriend's house, and one that I broke. 



This was like the 3rd bottle I bought myself (celebration of first career job) and it was pretty complex for someone as new as me, boarding on too much so. 

Now I really do like it now that I've had a few others. 



Greetings Scotchit! Tonight a review of what I regard as the top of the line of this distillery's core range - it's a distillery that everyone here knows pretty well, but one that I've never really rated exceptionally highly, with almost all their bottlings falling somewhere in the 75-85 range. 

Anyway, this is the non-chillfiltered Balvenie 21 Portwood. I initially corked this bottle for my grandmother's funeral a few months ago and shared it with my cousins, who are all relative beginners to whisky, and everyone seemed to enjoy it. Will this be the first Balvenie to break 90 points?

Let's find out!

Balvenie 21 PortWood NCF
Speyside, 47.6% ABV, NCF, E150?, ?120 for 700ml

Nose: Honey. Toffee. Red fruits, currants. Pineapple and lemons. Oak and slight coffee. Cinnamon and baking spices. With time, earthier. 

This stings my nostrils a bit, but I think that might be a problem with my nostrils tonight. Quite a lot going on here. The port influence is subtle, but recognizable.

Taste: Thick, creamy mouthfeel. Citrus. Red currants. Malt and honey. Toffee. Brown sugar. Light winey astringency. Light peppery bite. Hint of ginger. 

No bitterness, surprisingly, for a 21 year old Balvenie. The port is still subtle here, but this exhibits a bit of red wine astringency that tips me off. It's alright, but subsequent sips make the astringency stand out a bit more. 

Finish: Medium length, dry. Red wine. Malt and honey. Oak. Lemon rinds. Red currant juice. Lightly astringent. With time, less astringency and a bit more spice.

A slight touch of bitter wineyness makes this a tad unpleasant.

Summary: Nope, this wasn't the one. It's Balvenie, alright, with just a thin covering of port sprinkled ever so gently on top of it. I think I'm just not a huge fan of the Balvenie profile - it's just too well integrated.

If anything, I'd say David Stewart (and his underlings) is too good at his job, because everything from Balvenie just tastes so mellow, calm and frankly a little bit boring. I have a hard time believing many of the other Balvenies would mix it up too much either, because at this point I think I've reviewed about 6 or 7 of them. 

Anyway, the mouthfeel is nice and the NCF is clearly doing this a lot of favours, so if you like this profile then this is definitely the bottling to aim for. 

Me, I might just be done with Balvenie for a while - mostly because I've exhausted all the standard bottlings in their range. Maybe I'll try a sample of the Sherry Cask 15 eventually. I should probably get acquainted with Arran or something. 

Score: 84/100
Balanced and good, but boring.

Most Similar To: Balvenie 15 Single Barrel, Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban, BenRiach 17 Solstice.

Buy Again? No, too forgettable and too expensive.



Great review! I think that, for the price, there are cheaper and better port finished alternatives.

I'd definitely go for Arran. They make lovely stuff!



Sorry to hear about your grandma :/

Have you had the 43% version? I like it, but I think it gets WAY more praise than it's worth and it's not worth the $250 after taxes that it normally costs. 



It's better this way, she spent over a year in the hospital against her will.

And no, not tried the 43%.



Yeah, I more meant I'm sorry for the decline, not the ending. I have a DNR/DNI in place so I'm not kept alive against my will if I'm in a situation where I can't do anything about it myself.

Once I get settled in CO at the end of next month we should work out the swap we've been talking about for ages. 



Greetings, friends! My second review for today is for a pair of bar reviews I've done during the past 2 weeks that I really need to get posted. Both are Balvenies and both are relatively rarely reviewed here. Specifically, we'll be looking at Balvenie 12 Signature and Balvenie 1993 PortWood.

You'll have to forgive the brevity on some of these notes - bar drams aren't the perfect arena for reviewing. Anyway, off we go.

First up is the Signature, which was my third and final dram at Bon Accord, sipped as a dessert dram after eating a steak pie. Overall, a good night out.

Review #36: Balvenie 12 Signature
12 years, 40% ABV, Speyside, NCF, natural colour
Reviewed at Bon Accord in Glasgow

Nose: flamb?ed bananas, mild apples, malty sweetness, cognac

Sweet and fruity, with a strange cognac note that I just couldn't get away from identifying. Light, with that Balvenie Banana note. Pleasant, overall.

Taste: fresh arrival, mild, malted barley, dark sugar, fresh banana, sultanas, sour, canteloupe/rock melon

Light and fresh and fruity. Something sour, possibly a semi-ripe melon?

Finish: medium length, slightly dry, sweet, melons, dark sugar, tanniny bitterness

Good, but a bit light and short. Slightly bitter.

Conclusion: My faith has been restored in The Balvenie. If more Balvenies are this good, I might even become a fan. A very drinkable single malt that's a clear step up from the DoubleWood in my opion. Complex sweetness while remaining light and malty. 

Score: 83/100

Good stuff with just a few rough edges.

Second, we have a 2005 release of the PortWood, distilled in 1993. Aged 12 years, this eventually turned into the Balvenie 21 PortWood. Baby PortWood, if you will. Anyway, this was reviewed yesterday, so it's pretty fresh in my mind.

Review #37: Balvenie PortWood 1993
12 years, 40% ABV, Speyside, NCF, natural colour
Reviewed at Bruuveri in Helsinki

Nose: port, brown sugar, caramel, fresh cherry, vanilla, raspberry, tiny bit of coconut, red currant, lime

Sweet and slightly sour. Ever so fruity. Porty and delicious. Overall, a lovely nose. Adding water makes it just a tad more sour.

Taste: light mouthfeel, brown sugar, raisins, fried bananas, limes, slight bitterness, mild vanilla

Rum! What a strange evolution, since this reminds me a hell of a lot of the GoldenCask, if a lot more sour. Flavours flit in and out, going from brown sugar to bananas to raisins to sour to bitter. Sweeter with water, but ruins the mouthfeel so it's not really recommended.

Finish: slightly short, dry, vanilla, brown sugar, bitter, dark chocolate, slightly sour citrus

Kind of bitter, with some sweetness. Could be longer. The dark chocolate is a proper 90% cocoa. 

Conclusion: Complex and interesting. Nose is all port, then the palate is all dark rum, then a bitter chocolate finish. It's an intriguing dram for sure, but due to the low ABV, it really doesn't benefit from water. 

Score: 86/100

Interesting, but a bit too bitter for me to really enjoy.

Previous Balvenie reviews

That's all folks! 

Next up on my plate is posting the first part of my travel journal. I've just been swamped and trying to slog through my (extensive) backlog of reviews. The journal itself is full of pointless rambling and inane babbling, so I'm sure it'll fit right in with my back catalog...



Great reviews! I've only had the 12 year single barrel but it was a hell of a good malt. I would like to one day try the 21 year PortWood.

What is this steak pie you speak of?



Balvenie 21 Portwood, 40% ABV

Inspired by this post.

Fanta neat:

84/100

Balvenie neat:

89/100

Balvenie + Fanta:

86/100

Alternatively, YOLO/100

Happy new year Scotchit!



I think the most offensive part of this post is the use of YOLO. 

I thought this was 43%? the one I got was 43%



At least it wasn't #YOLO

Everything you guys get at 43% we get at 40%.



Must be a travel exclusive. 40% ABV pisses me off. 

Edit: spelling



We don't have Orange Crush here in Australia so I cannot give you an answer on that one, but I guess you could use Sunkist even though it's an inferior product.

I think the best mixer would be Irn Bru. Now that I think about it, I should've used this for the review instead. I know a place that stocks it... Damn it!



Thanks to /u/Dyllix for the sample!  Aged for 21 years and moved to port casks for the last few months of maturation.  Bottled at 43% ABV.

?

Nose:  Rich dried fruits and toffee.  Sea salt.  A hint of smoke.  Lots of vanilla.

Palate:  Medium creamy mouthfeel.  Sweet with lots of port influence.  Red fruits, grapes, marzipan.  A bit of Mexican spiced chocolate as well.

Finish:  Long finish.  The fruit continues on while the spice melds with it.  Cinnamon and pepper.

Score: 90/100

?

This is excellent stuff.  I didn't know what to expect really, but its great.  Well aged and interesting.  Smooth as hell.  And the portwood makes it richer and more interesting.  I'll keep my eye out for a bottle, especially if I can find a higher proof travel retail one.

/u/review_bot 'Balvenie'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Balvenie:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  sample #2 from cpelletier - Balvenie 21 year old  Portwood 86 proof

very good and rich, great nose and sweet on the palate, subtle on top but complex underneath.  the picture I found says 80 proof so there must be separate versions out there.  I can't imagine the 80 proof shining like this one does.  make sure to read your labels folks!

94/100



thanks... in going with the sweetness... is this one sweeter than either the 15 or DW? 

I like the higher abv myself as well... I think the CC could've been a pretty good dram had it been bottled at a higher abv



thanks.  now if I only it were available somewhere here :(  

only Balvenie I have been able to find locally is the DW.  Might check out a few other places as recently I have noticed a couple of the local liquor stores have started increasing their variety of single malts.... hopefully before long I will local access to a decent selection!



One of my all time personal faw's this one.

Even at 86 proof I sometimes splash a dab of water in it. There is so much more to it's bouquet.



Hi again! Balvenie has a wide range of interesting and well made malts. I'm not a wine guy, but there are some nice wine cask finished/matured whiskies out there. So let's see if this is one of them:

The Balvenie 21 Portwood

Speyside, 40%

color: alloy orange

nose: oranges, oak, bananas, spices, hazelnut shells, baked apple, rose hip, hint of smoke, raisins

taste: grapes, oak, minty tangerine, malt, honey, hazelnuts, sweet citrus, maple, caramel yogurt

finish: getting dry, lingering

Oak an spices are very prominent. Not very balanced. Imo this would benefit from being bottled at younger age, for example 17 years like other Balvenies. I know there is a high strength version of this out there but I don't think the ABV is the main problem here. If you're a Port fan and like strong wood influence this is for you. 

81/100



As one who lives in Western Europe I wood would be happy to see it under $100.

Edit: would. Damn Portwood...



Balvenie. If there was ever a malt that would really be helped by being unchillfiltered, 46% minimum and natural colour, I think it would be this. At it's best, it's a fantastic whisky. In fact one of my few 90 point whiskies was a Balvenie. (Sigh) Alas! Most of it is meant for the malty mass market.

?

Balvenie 12 year old Doublewood 40%

Colour: E150a (Refill barrels for 10 years, Sherry for 2. Don't imagine they're 1st fill though.)

Body: Light/Medium

Nose: Light, fruity and malty. Some nut, light oakiness, some light sherry sweetness. Lots of honey and vanilla.

Taste: Very silky and (shudders) smooth mouthfeel. Fruity and sweet,  vanilla and honey, a bourbon waxineess, some herbal spice. Actually very bourbon-y for a sherry finish.

Finish: Short length. A bit of bitter coffee.

Notes: Perfectly acceptable and perfectly boring.

66/100

?

Balvenie 21 year old Portwood

Colour: Gold

Body: Medium

Nose: A sweet floral nose. Quite oak driven with loads of vanilla and honey, peach, brownie and sweet nut, fragrant oak, dark fruit- blackberry, clotted cream, a hint of port, milky coffee. Some developing lemon and fruity oak.

Taste: Creamy arrival, coffee, oaky tannins, floral with fragrant oak and building fruit- raisin, fig, apple, pear, peach, some rum type notes- molasses, some spice- cinnamon, more tannins and milky coffee.

Finish: Long length. Oaky toffee coffee and cocoa lasting nicely then the port hits with bitter dark chocolate.

Notes: Not as good as I was hoping. I tasted this next to the Macallan 18 Sherry and it paled in comparison. 

77/100

?



44 was Jameson Caskmates. Not reviewed on here yet. Most of my reviews aren't actually.

91 was Bowmore 1987 Wemyss and Ardbeg 1991 Master of Malt. Both of which I have reviewed on here.

Should be able to find it here



Ha Caskmates.  I actually didn't find that bad at all.   I didn't go rush out buy it, but far from the worst whisky I've had.  

Edit:. Actually I take that back.  In the company you have reviewed yes it's the worst whisky.  I was more thinking in general.



It's kinda weird. I never really was into Balvenie, and I can honestly say that there are good and bad ones, yet the initial offerings have never really been my "thing".

That being said, as anyone will tell you, finding different drams and trying different types is how you find what you like from the distillery. And since this one is reviewed quite a bit around here, I thought I'd have a dram of Balvenie 21 year Portwood.

I really do enjoy Port finishes on whiskies, as they add new dimensions like a Doctor Who episode. In this case, the port "pipes" that are used are 30 years old. If that doesn't interest you at least a little bit, you... probably aren't interested in port or whisky, honestly.

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40.0%

Price: $276.95 (CAD) in the LCBO, which is not the travel exclusive and is watered down to 40%. 

Colour:  Dark stained maple

Nose: Sour grapes, strawberry, steak spice, currants, figs, smoke, dry tannic, umami in the background, popcorn

So many different, nice flavours, all jumping out, slapping your face and calling your mom up for another go. Naughty and nice, oh yeah.

Taste:  Plum, sparkling wine, gravel, dark honey, parsley, bitter dark chocolate, candy

Very deep flavours that are coming from the port influence. The typical Balvenie honey flavours pop up and remind you that the nice distillery made this and to apologize for the rough state the nose left you in.

Finish: Butter, strawberry, smooth cream, milk chocolate, prunes, cucumber, rocket, more sour grapes

Like being buried in butter and left to die happy. Good times. There's some light earthy flavours that lend some nice complexity.

Conclusion: This is a good mix and balance of flavours. Quite tough flavours as well, nothing shies away from the forefront. I'd recommend a dram of this anytime. Almost as good as the 30 year.

87/100

Other Balvenie reviews

Balvenie DoubleWood 12 year

Balvenie Carribean Cask 14 year

Balvenie 30 year old

Scotch review #84, Speyside review #24



I tried this at a restaurant and was really impressed. I insisted to my buddy who usually doesn't like Scotch that he try it and he was so taken by it he went out and bought a bottle which was not cheap.

This is one of the smoothest tasting drams I've ever had. Like most Balvanies, it starts sweet and smooth with a mild kick of flavor at the end. However, it is not nearly so complex or flavorful as some Islays. 
