Opened our new "work hooch" this afternoon: the new Balvenie, a 12 year old expression pulled from a single, first fill, ex-bourbon cask. Rounding up to 48% ABV.

Color: Scotch

Nose: Nicely Balveneic, some heather and honey (the combo always reminds me of bubble gum), bananas and cloves, lots of oak, an intriguing little blast of barnyard funk that might have been a product of the newly opened bottle, and a nice little sandalwood hint.

Taste: This is where this expression breaks down a bit. There's nice cinnamon and spice, honey and banana. The new wood doesn't exactly work--it's bordering on too oaky tannic like an overbrewed black tea. Reminds me a bit of the Deanston virgin oak if you've had that one. Not a dealbreaker and it doesn't make this a "don't buy" or anything, but it flirts with off-putting. A solid splash of water improved both the taste and the nose.   

Finish: Very long, dry-spicy-sweet. Really nice.

Score: 84

Conclusion: I was very pumped to try this as a huge fan of Balvenie. I'm withholding final judgement until the bottle's been open for a week or two, but my initial impression is that this would have been better with a blend of first and n-th fill casks. The new oak flavor comes oh-so-close to dominating. Given the price (55$), I'll take the 15 year single barrel, the Caribbean cask, or maybe even the WoodWood.  



Wow, so much to say: 

First, I can't tell you how happy I was when I read the word "banana," since that's a word I use to describe most Balvenies, but I don't really see it used very often. 

Second, I actually picked this bottle up the same day that I purchased a bottle of the Deanston Virgin Oak. Not much else to say, just that it's a weird coincidence that you mentioned that bottle in your review.

Third, 84 is much lower than I rated it, but I can see where you're coming from. The bottle was fairly disappointing in my mind, but it could have just been how much I was looking forward to trying it.

Fourth, $55?! What a price: where did you buy this bottle?!



Hello scotchit! Chaz here with review number eleven. I acquired this sample from a very generous anonymous donor. Lets go!

Whisky: Balvenie 12 Year Single Barrel, Speyside Single Malt, 47.8% ABV, $69.99 (Total Wine). Sample.

Nose: Malt, honey, vanilla, pie crust, orange zest, honey nut cheerios, oak, marshmallows, juicy red apples, and a tiny hint of peppermint.

-Amazingly complex nose. I could literally nose this for hours and come up with something new each time. 

Palate: Cereal, pancakes w/ maple syrup, vanilla bean, white pepper, creme brule, honey, oak tannins, ginger, and toffee apples.

-Delicious. A full, silky mouth feel coats the entire mouth. Cereals, sweets, spices, and fruity undertones make for an interesting and fulfilling taste. 

Finish: Oak, some pepper, sweet vanilla, and orange zest.

-Medium long and slightly dry. It leaves my taste buds wanting more.

Final Thoughts: My mind is blown! The quality in this malt is amazing. My favorite part is the nose. It's good enough to spend the whole night with. As it sits in the glass its changes and evolves beautifully. The bourbon casks show their influence in the taste; sweet and peppery with a finish to match. My first Balvenie and what an introduction to this distillery.

93/100



This review was originally published on the blog. For the full write up, visit http://boozedancing.wordpress.com/2013/07/08/whisky-review-the-balvenie-12-year-old-single-barrel/

Here's the review...

Appearance: Pale copper color.

Aroma: There?s a really nice combination of sweet and spicy scents coming off of this one. Vanilla, cinnamon, toffee, roasted hazelnuts, a hint of clove, and a touch of brown sugar.

Taste: Vanilla and cinnamon is front and center at the onset, with all of the flavors concentrated on the front third of my tongue. The baking spices intensify at mid-palate with some clove and brown sugar coming through. Lightly sweet and spicy finish with a touch of roasted hazelnut showing up as well. The flavors linger for at least a minute or two.
ABV: 47.8%

Conclusion: Back in December of last year, we reviewed The Balvenie?s DoubleWood 17. While we definitely enjoyed the whisky, we couldn?t help but think that it would have been even better if it were bottled at a higher ABV, since at 43% ABV, we found it to be a bit too mellow for our taste. When I first heard that The Balvenie was releasing a 12 Year Old Single Barrel at an ABV that is marginally higher than their mostly standard 43%, I was instantly intrigued. Thankfully, The Balvenie?s 12 Year Old Single Barrel did not disappoint. What I really like about this particular expression is that The Balvenie is essentially allowing their true distillery character to shine through without the use of a finishing cask (as they did with their 15 Year Old Single Barrel which is also well worth trying). This was a delicious dram from start to finish.

Score: 88



Reviewing the Balvenie 12 year old Single Barrel original bottling (Cask #3221, Bottle #73), which was bottled unchilfiltered at 47.8%: 

Deets: Purchased winter 2015 in DC for $60. Imbibed from an INAO glass (simply the best).  Photo is my own.

Color: Yes.

Nose: Vanilla, coconut, menthol, pineapple juice, ginger, bubblegum, banana, apples/pears, allspice, and a puff of smoke deep down.

Palate: Somewhat thick with big vanilla, apples/pears, and cinnamon. Water brings marshmallow, sweet mint, coconut milk, and that puff of smoke. 

Finish:  Pleasant and welcome bitterness, with dry vanilla, powdered ginger, and a little char. Lingering and pulsating tingle.

Score: B+, (89/100).  The strength is on point, and there?s just enough viscosity (7/10). The bitterness at the end is a pleasant contrast to the sweetness on the palate and leaves you wanting another sip.  Lovely. 

Scale:

90-99: Peak experience

80-89: Worth having a bottle around if the price is right

70-79: Worth drinking, probably should be free or close to it

60-69: Cocktails anyone?

00-59: Vodka anyone?



Maybe not great for the price 

There aren't any well-priced Balvenie bottles anymore.  Not even 12DW.



I'm back with a vertical review of six of the Balvenie offerings (review #18-#23 if anybody's counting). Balvenie is probably my favorite distillery and since it has some of the highest scores in my personal whisky review archive, I wanted to share my notes on what I've had from them so far.

Balvenie Single Barrel 12 Year First Fill (Cask #12691 Bottle #166), $68

Color: Deep Gold

Nose: Cinnamon, bananas, oak, honey, vanilla, cherries, stone fruit.

Taste: Cinnamon, spices, bananas, vanilla, leather, butter, honey, peach, brown sugar, cream.

Finish: Cinnamon and nuts.

Conclusion:  Honestly I was a little let down by this one based on the price. I haven't tasted a Balvenie that I didn't love but with the ratings I've given their other expressions, I was expecting this one to be one of the highest rated whiskies I've ever tasted. Maybe my expectations were a bit high.

90/100

Balvenie 15 Single Barrel (Cask #3388 Bottle #157), $69

Color: Medium Amber

Nose: Assertive and fresh. Oak, a bit of smoke, cinnamon, banana and butterscotch. It smells like candy.

Taste: Smooth and sweet. Honey, vanilla, butter, oak, orange peel, cake, cream, heather and banana. 

Finish: Extremely smooth and velvety. A hint of spice  develops into a honeyed sweetness before falling off. Butterscotch lingers.

Conclusion: Robust but sophisticated, full-flavored yet refined, the 15 year strikes a wonderful balance and is one of the best I've ever had. I've had four bottles of this  over the last year and each one is indeed unique. The tasting notes are all the same, but in different ratios. Every time I come back to this whisky I'm just as knocked back as I was the first time I tasted it. It's close to perfect in terms of what I'm looking for from a whisky. I can't recommend it enough. Currently in a multi-way tie for my highest rated scotch of all time.

93/100

I've had the Golden Cask, and it's definitely unique enough to be worth a bit of a premium. The rum casks aren't just a gimmick. 

Edit: The Golden Cask is basically Caribbean Cask, but travel retail exclusive.



Nice job on this set of reviews

I am a fan of the caribbean cask.  It is tasty, but interesting that it rated higher than some of the substantially more expensive bottles (never had any of them so i cant compare but I like trying balvenie)  This  set of reviews will definitely add to my future purchases.



I know we're friends and all, but I think I hate you a little bit. Also, your reviews are, as always spot on, although I think maybe you were a bit too kind to the doublewood. 15 is my new favorite whiskey, and my wife got me a bottle for our anniversary. Can't drink it until then, though. >_<

Edit: I'm on my phone and thought you gave the DW a 94/100. 84/100 is about right. 



reviews 5-8

Balvenie 12 Year Single Barrel

Proof: 95.6 Price: $80

Nose: Chocolate cherries, malt, bourbon vanilla, hops

Palate: Pepper, anise, barley grain, flat sprite, musk, slight basil

Finish: dried fruits, cherry, oak

Overall: Minimal, but intense. The only note I didn't care for is the flat sprite, which takes it down a bit sadly. Still pretty worthwhile. Would be better if it were cheaper (but that's generally always the case).

82/100

Weeell, I wasn't going to say anything.

Buuuut

Hi. 

I'm really surprised you didn't like the Caribbean Cask more, I really enjoy it!  I haven't reviewed that Aberfeldy yet, and in fact I think you're the first person to review it here! I'll have to revisit it sometime soon, I don't remember the sulfur notes. Sorry you weren't more of a fan of it :(.

As for the Mortlach - it's actually this.  Another pretty rare whisky that is sherry finished supposedly.  I'm glad you enjoyed that one a bit more than I did!

What was your verdict on the Rendezvous Rye?



Ah ha! You were my secret santa! Nice. I see you all the time on these subs.

I honestly have no more of the Caribbean to give a second verdict, but it really just seemed to sweet for some reason. It may be premature though, these are all based on samples.

Hmm, well with the aberfeldy, maybe there's something in my glencairn?? I keep washing it out and drying it. I'm not sure. It's okay, my friend. They're not all winners, but it's still juice, and I'm glad to have gotten what you sent. :)

Interesting, I didn't get any sherry, and at least I was somewhere close to the age. I knew it had some because of the oak characteristic. How much was it?

Rendezvous was amazing. Thanks for sending it!

P.S. I'm drunk off of double ipa's and oak aged cider whilst sending this message, so abound to be some rambling. Cheers.



Are you sure that's not the Balvenie 14 Caribbean Cask? The Madeira cask was a 17 year.

Nice reviews!



I received this bottle last year from my then girlfriend and now finance. It?s been open for about 11 months and is half full. This is The Balvenie Single Barrel 12 year old at 47.8% for my third whisky review and first scotch review on reddit.

?

N: Vanilla and rich honey that is more like honeycomb are immediately present, it?s light and fresh with apple skins and grass as well. It is simple and the malt really shines through but there is depth to the simple vanilla/honey profile.. maybe heather honey? Overall it?s a well done nose that becomes more floral and fruity with time as well.

?

P: Malt, vanilla, and waxy-honey are the stars once again, orange peel more so than apples this time and a bit of peppery spiciness. Simple again with a nice mouth feel at full strength.

?

F: A long finish that echoes the nose and taste, malty and sugary but not too sweet, orchard fruits and some pepper once again.

?

Water: I do not think water is needed for this dram. It has the perfect mouthfeel at full strength.

?

Overall: This is a simple malt at first glance but the flavours reveal depth and complexity as you spend time with it. Very well crafted. As mentioned in my last review I am liking this simpler style of malt without any finishes or heavy peat more and more and this is one of the better examples I?ve had so far. It?s better than the Doublewood 12 and Triple Cask 12 in my opinion and makes me wish Balvenie would release more ex-bourbon cask only malts. Now it?s time to see if I can still find a sample of the 15 yr Single Barrel somewhere..

?

Score: 83

?



15SB Sherry Cask

I got this for Xmas.  It is damn good.  I feel unqualified to review it.  



Review #5

I was excited to try out the Balvenie Single Barrel 12 First Fill due to my enjoyment of the 15 year old Single Barrel and I was not disappointed.  Full of flavor and packs a punch, most likely due to it being 47.8 ABV NCF.  While it is a little expensive for a 12 year old, it's nearly comparable to the 15 while being $20-30 cheaper, at least in my neck of the woods.  I'd probably rate the 15 at about a 92 if you're wondering.  Altogether an excellent malt, and a great addition to any collection.



Sounds good! From what I've tasted of the the 15 Balvenie releases good casks! 

People tend to miss the peat in Balvenie, but I think you were picking up on it with the Cedar ;-)



I've looked at a few of my local stores and never seen anything interesting in the rum department. I picked up a bottle of pyrate (or something equally stupid) only to get it home and see it's the same people behind patron. 

Was not impressed. I know it's not a good bottle, but I don't want to be burned again...



With help from a couple of friends over at /r/scotchswap, I recently picked up a bottle of the new and highly anticipated Balvenie 12 Single Barrel First Fill. A worthy follow-on to the Single Barrel 15?

Here's some background from Balvenie's marketing people:

New for 2013, this Single Barrel expression from The Balvenie has been aged for 12 years in a first fill Bourbon cask of a single distillation. While each cask is subtly different, The Balvenie Malt Master hand selects only those casks characterized by sweetness and subtle vanilla oak to be bottled as The Balvenie Single Barrel. Each bottling forms a limited edition of no more than 300 hand-numbered bottles drawn from a single cask, making each bottle unique and unrepeatable. The Balvenie Single Barrel, 12 Year Old is non chill-filtered and is bottled at the higher strength of 47.8% ABV.

My take:

Color: Straw, pale golden.

Nose: Floral, heather, honey, toasted oak. More perfumed than sweet. A little bit of vegital mustiness, as in moss or dead leaves.

Taste: Sweet and rich. Instant attack of honey, vanilla, brown sugar, and baked apples. Toasted oak is still there, with some notes of pepper and allspice. Nice mouthfeel; not too oily, not too dry.

Finish: More tanic and spicy, but the sweetness still dominates as the taste slowly fades away.

When I reviewed the Signatory Longmorn a few weeks ago, I bemoaned the lack of good quality, craft-presentation bourbon aged Speysides on the market today. With this whisky, Balvenie is stepping up to the plate to fill this niche, and doing it quite well. You can really taste the quality of the casks in use here, resulting in a great depth of flavor for a 12 year old. My only reservation really is the price: at $64 this is certainly at the high end of the 12 year old price range, and puts it into competition with a number of great cask-strength Scotchs. But if this is the flavor profile you're looking for, Balvenie 12 S.B. First Fill is definitely recommended. 85/100



Sounds pretty awesome and super limited. I suppose they're only testing the waters at this stage, but either way I would like to try it. 

Thanks, glad you enjoyed! 
