The Balvenie 14 Caribbean Cask

Strength: 43%

Color: The same gold color that all the Balvenies seem to have. 

Nose: This scotch has a two front nose: there's a woody smell like new hardwood floors, and there's the honey sweet nose I expect from a Balvenie with a little bit of a rum twist to it. 

With a little more time to open up, some more fruitiness comes out. 

Palate: Light on the palate, but with so much flavor! Sugar cane, baklava, and of course, spiced rum. This reminds me of a boozy dessert, like rum cake. I'm having trouble describing a particular note that is unique to this scotch. It's almost like the sweet flavor you get if you let a starch sit in your mouth and your saliva breaks it down into sugar. You guys all did that in grade school science right?

Finish: I love the finish on this whisky. The rum cask does it's part to add a fun spin on the Balvenie sweetness. The sweetness lingers for longer than many sweeter scotches, though the woody notes are present and subtle. 

Summary: I absolutely love this stuff, better than the doublewoods, better than the single barrels; it's my favorite Balvenie to day. The rum finish superbly complements the honey sweetness that is Balvenie's signature note. This is a bottle that I'm always in the mood for, and I always want to have on hand. 

Score: 93/100 




I think /u/dustlesswalnut gave it a 94. 

Edit: whoops, he gave it a 95.



Greetings Scotchiteers! Still working my way through my batch of Whiskysite samples, so I'll keep the intro short.

This is the Balvenie 14 Caribbean Cask, which spends most of its life in bourbon barrels, then gets finished in rum barrels for under a year and released to us. 

I've had the Balvenie 14 Golden Cask before (which is also finished in rum barrels) and enjoyed it. How does this hold up to its higher ABV cousin? Let's find out.

Balvenie 14 Caribbean Cask
Speyside, 43% ABV, finished in rum casks

Nose: dark rum and brown sugar, sweet vanilla and caramel, passionfruit and slightly sour honeydew, rich oak and malted barley, mild bitter note, cinnamon and cloves, honey and bananas

I'm pretty impressed with this. It smells really rich and sweet. The bourbon cask character is readily apparent in the vanilla, barley and oakiness, but the rum has given some darker sweetness and spice to it. I'd liken this to a warm banana pancake with honey on top.

Taste: creamy mouthfeel, immediately bitter, fresh citrus and vanilla, caramel and brown sugar, honeydew and honey, malted barley and toasted oak, flambeed bananas and overripe pineapple, chili powder

An instant wave of bitterness that gives way to fresher citrusy sweet notes, with an underlying darker sweet base. My only real complaint is that this is a bit thin on the palate - a slight bump in ABV could make it much easier to pick the flavours out. Definitely a dessert whisky, though - lots of sweetness in this.

Finish: medium-long and warming, bitter oak tannins, malted barley and bananas, pickled watermelon, white pepper, rum and brown sugar

A pretty decent finish for this ABV. Lasts for a long time, and warms the back of the throat. I can't really complain about this - it's good.

Conclusion: A warm, inviting dessert dram, full of sweetness. It's elegantly crafted and very well balanced, with lots of individual nuances coming and going. Sweetness isn't quite my thing, so a lot of my notes are shots in the dark. Tropical fruits and other sweet things abound, though. However, it is still a bit bitter, and that tends to ruin the experience a little bit for me. 

Compared to 14 Golden Cask: Having a dram of the travel retail Golden Cask is actually a bit shocking after this, since the slightly higher ABV really jumps out and smacks you in the face. There's also much more sourness and almost a vinegary note in it that's quite unpleasant in comparison. I definitely think this is the superior offering. I gave the Golden Cask an 85, which I think is a bit excessively high - trying it again, I think it deserves in the realm of 75.

With that being said, I think this whisky deserves a score of...

Score: 82/100
A different type of sweetness that I welcome. I may even get a bottle for semi-daily sipping.

Previous Balvenie reviews:



I just want to point out that one of my notes is "pickled watermelon". I don't know if you think that's a thing, but if you do then eww...

But yeah, I did quite like it. There was a lot of bitterness on the palate, but it gave way to sweetness. The missus loved it.



Thanks to /u/IndridCoId for the sample!  This is aged for 14 years before finishing in Caribbean rum casks.  Bottled at 43% ABV.

?

Nose:  Very rum like.  Molasses.  Caramel.  Vanilla.  Figs.  Dried fruit.

Palate:  Medium thin mouthfeel.  Lots of sweet tropical fruits.  Cloves.  Honey.  Flowers.  Vanilla.  Caramel.

Finish:  Medium short finish.  Black pepper.  More cloves and spice.  The sweet tropical flavors continue for a bit.

Score: 85/100

?

This is nice, and very well rounded, but I feel like its just a bit blunted.  Like it teases much more than it is, but its actually pretty subdued.  I can't imagine anyone not liking this, but I can't see anyone falling head over heals in love with it either.  A very people pleaser.  I'd love to try this one at cask strength.

?

/u/review_bot 'Balvenie'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Balvenie:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



I liked this, but the rum overtone was lost after literally the first smell / taste.  I used to drink a lot of rum so I was hoping it would be more.

It was great 1/5, but honestly didn't seem much different to me than the normal 12.  I've been through probably 10 bottles of the 12 vs 1 of the rum cask though, so maybe that's biased somehow.



honestly didn't seem much different to me than the normal 12

The 12yo doublewood is so good, spoils you for the rest of their mid-range stuff. That said usually keep a bottle of each on hand, I love them both as easy-drinkers. 



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick reivew.  Malt Meister Cpelletier89 was gracious enough to send me a couple samples yesterday.  I had mentioned I would like to try the Balvenie 14 year old Caribbean Cask 86 proof.   What have the rest of you done for me lately!?  Cpelletier is now my new favorite Malt Meister at least today

delightful and sweet oils that last long like gum.  it has an extra maturation in rum casks and the rum really is brought out in its original form of sugar cane.  very nice.  The Balvenie sure has a lot of varieties it has been kicking around, reminds me of Bruichladdich in that respect.  I hear my favorite of theirs - the 15 single cask - is a limited run.  Why do they have to do this crap to me?

88/100

review #103, only 4 more for my level 10 scotch tartan! (exluding bourbon reviews)  next is cpelletier89 Balvenie Portwood 21. yum.



Glad to see you enjoyed this dram! It's a very nice scotch for the price tag. 

I look forward to seeing the others.



Nice review, Tex. As it turns out, they buy the unaged rum from the manufacturers in the Carribean, age it for a bit in barrels to use in the making of this whisky, then sell the aged rum back to the rum producers for more than they paid for it. Not a bad deal!

Also, for what it's worth, I've stopped hearing that the Single Barrel (also my favorite) is being discontinued. I even asked a few brand ambassadors and they haven't heard of anything as of yet, so let's hope.



Hi Scotchit, cake_my_day here with a review of a quite special, rum finished whisky called

The Balvenie 14 Caribbean Cask

Speyside, 43%

color: golden amber (colored)

nose: green bananas, cane sugar, wood glue, rapeseed, caramel, vanilla, palm leaves, oak

taste: licorice, peanuts, apples, honey, blackberries, linen, malt, love hearts candies, oak, ice mint, bees wax

finish: sweet and long

Affordable, smooth and sweet malt with quite enjoyable rum notes. Very nice. Balvenie should bottle their stuff at higher strength though...

89/100



Balvenie should bottle their stuff at higher strength though...

And without coloring or chill filtration as standard... but either way I still enjoy a Balvenie.



Hmmmm... I love old fashioneds... but I hate mixing my scotch.

I guess just one won't hurt. You know... for science.



Wow I just joined this subreddit and the first thing I see is the bottle my buddy got me for my birthday last year. 

I prefer my scotch a bit earthier, but this stuff is unique enough to stand out a bit. 



I just noticed this bottle about a month ago. Lo and behold, as soon as I find it everyone is doing reviews on it.

The want is strong in this one. 

Unfortunately, I can't afford $60 a bottle (and that's at the duty-free shop on base).



I was at Whisky Live Tel Aviv yesterday and I tried a lot of good whiskies. I'd never had a rum finished whisky before so I was quite excited to try this one.

Nose: Coconut, rum &  raisin ice cream, pineapple, pina colada,  that strawberries and cream flavouring they use in candies and yogurts and such, brown sugar

Palate: Rum, a bit of fresh road tar and sticky rubber, Malibu (the drink), coconut chocolate, boiled sweets, caramel.

Finish: Medium length, very sweet, like throat lozenges almost, and a refreshing fruity note.

Rating: 8/10

This is a very nice whisky, while a bit sweet for my taste it's not sickeningly so, the flavours come together well. Very interesting and had a lot of notes I'm not familiar with together in a whisky.



Balvenie?s Caribbean Cask is a Scotch aged 14 years in ?traditional? (which I read as bourbon) casks, before a finish in Caribbean rum casks. Balvenie actually selects the rum and fills the barrels with it prior to the rum being replaced with the Whisky for the finishing maturation as well.

43% abv.

Nose - Very sweet smelling...molasses, brown sugar with melted butter, toffee, caramel, clove, vanilla, nutmeg, allspice, cinnamon, maybe some gingerbread too. The sweetness comes off as thick and syrupy, and is rather dominant though the spice notes do help round it out. Kind of nice, in a too sweet sort of way.

Taste - A bit harsher and more acrid than I expected on entry. Somewhat burnt brown sugar, cheap spiced rum, molasses, vanilla, picking up the spice notes - cinnamon, clove, and allspice as it progresses towards the finish. That somewhat acrid note remains throughout. Somewhat light and watery feel.

Finish - Burnt brown sugar, nutmeg, cinnamon, allspice, vanilla, and honey. Spice notes and that acridness I mention linger longest.

I can?t say I?m a fan of this one - that burnt/acrid note is too much for me. Some of the extra toffee and molasses type sweetness I kind of like, but those notes are hard for me to enjoy given what I described. I?d been on the fence for a while about this - I like some Balvenies fairly well, just didn?t want this to be the bottle to add to my already too large collection, and I?m glad I didn?t commit to a full bottle of this.

72/100



It's a huge bummer that quality has dropped so much. My first official review here was of CC, and I gave it a 95. Beginner's high, but I stand by it. Since then I've had a few different newer bottlings and they're getting consistently worse.

With all the rum finishes Balvenie had attempted and failed, it seemed like the "buy rum, ship to Scotland, age in their own casks, and use those to finish CC in" seemed like the perfect, repeatable recipe to get consistent quality. Either the rum is vastly different, they've reused their rum casks too many times, or the initial batches were finished significantly longer. 

In any case they made it suck, and that in turn, sucks.



they've reused their rum casks too many times

This is certainly a possibility and I hear that doing so adds a lot of tannin-like, undesireable flavor.  This could be the acrid note OP describes.



bought this a while back.. First time I purchased a bottle over $100 CAD. I've had a few balvenies in the past and they've generally been pretty good (review links below), so let's see how the 14yr CC measures up. 

Appearance:  light golden honey colour. Pretty typical balvenie. Gotta love that bottle design though. Sexy ;)

Nose: and the honey comes back, as always. Very sweet, some oaky vanilla, fruity, some berries and apples. No sign of the rum presence. 

Taste: very fruity and sweet. Aspartame, sugar and honey. Apples, some citrus. Little bit spicy. Not getting a ton of the rum influence, though the sweetness is probably the sugarcane. 

Finish: moderately long, sugary and warm. 

Rating: 78/100

this is the first bottle purchase I've been disappointed by. Sadly, I don't like this as much as any of the other Balvenies I've tasted. I would not suggest purchasing it. Kind of boring. 

Previous Balvenie Reviews:

Balvenie 12 Doublewood

Balvenie 12 Signature

Balvenie 16 Triple Cask

Balvenie 17 Peated Cask



Community review time! This was reviewed as part of a three part dram tasting I did at my local pub. This was the "baby" of the three, even though it's technically the second oldest of the bunch.

Huh, confused myself. Off to a good start on this review. Let's do the rest in pirate to ensure I go right off the bell-end.

Region: Speyside

Abv: 43%

Price: $103.45

Colour: Golden Rum (Such a cop out)

Nose: Bananas, wort, brown sugar, lily, papaya, rotten veggies, marmalade, lemon tart

I be expectin' a heavy rum smell, an' this married well wi' th' typical Balvenie. Quite nice, howere I wish thar be one or two more voyages in th' casks.

Taste: Caramel, clove, nutmeg, Thai chili, lime, banana bread, sourdough, chocolate, raspberry, vanilla cake, pepper, starch

Really bready taste here, which takes some time t' get used t'. Th' Balvenie sweetness pairs well wi' 't, an' I be enjoyin' this more than th' Doublewood, th' scurvy dog.

Finish: Olive oil, caraway, pineapple, sea air, banana, wheat, antiseptic, orange rind, yeast, creme brulee

The finish started off arrr, then turned quite bitter an' like a cutlass trow th' gut. I really do think th' colourin' or too wee voyages in th' Rum casks be t' blame. Good try tho.

Conclusion: Very smooth, supple nose that leads t' a full flavour an' then almost a great nose. Arrr, I be a fan, an' wouldna turn down a dram. If th' keg didna cost so much, I`d probably steal dis as a sippin' Speyside t' be havin' around.

83/100

This be review #51



And so we come to the end of the mystery drams from my Secret Santa, /u/muaddib99. Thanks again.

It's been a stressful few weeks, mostly due to work, and an excess of drinking due to weddings, bachelor parties, my birthday, and well, work stress. I'm happy to say that going into Xmas I'll be cutting back some and just enjoying water.

Try to get back to two a week.

Not to mention take a break from swaps until after May. Need to give all those shipping companies a break.

Anyway, onto the last clue for Dram #4

4: As I mentioned, you've posted a lot of reviews.... and you've got quite a few from this Speyside distillery already... however you've not yet reviewed this one and I think you'll enjoy it!

Hmmm... I do enjoy a good Speyside. Doesn't really narrow it down though, because from the look of it, I've done a bunch from Aberlour, Balcenie, BenRiach, Glenfarclas, Glenlivet, and Macallan. This is going to be hard!

Colour: Light gold

Nose: Lemon pudding, apple juice, jujubes, fennel, caramel, nectarines

Very light nose. Reminds me of a dram that I (oddly enough) didn't review one time. Has a very sweet nose to it. Not cask strength, but not too low on Abv. I'm guessing finished in a Sauternes cask maybe?

Taste: Lemon milkshake, jujubes, apple, mace, lemongrass

Yeah, this is a Sauternes cask. Or at least, I think it is. Could be an Ice Wine cask from Austria for all I know.

Again, sweet, mostly just sweet with some spices. The thick lemon flavour is like blowing a lemonade stand (just let that image mellow in your head). 

Really thick mouthfeel too. If it wasn't mostly sweet lemon flavour, I'd be really impressed.

Finish: Light smoke, pepper, lemon sorbet, cream, pear

Takes awhile to break apart more than just smoke/pepper notes, as the finish is shorter than Vern Troyer at an NBA game.

I'm pretty sure I've had this before, just haven't reviewed it... hmmm.

Conclusion: So I'd guess this is 46%, finished in Sauternes casks. Other than that, I'm pretty lost. Does BenRiach make a Sauternes finish? It reminds me of a BenRiach with some of the smoke.

On the other hand, I'm pretty sure this is Glenmorangie Nectar D'Or. I had it a few years ago in a bar, and it tasted really similar. However it's a Highland, so that can't be it.

Guess: BenRiach 16 Year Old Sauternes Finish

Actually: Balvenie 14 Caribbean Cask

73/100

Scotch review #224, Speyside review #65, Whisky Network review #330

Other Balvenie reviews:

Balvenie DoubleWood 12 year

Balvenie Carribean Cask 14 year

Balvenie 15 Single Barrel

Balvenie 17 DoubleWood

Balvenie 17 Peated Cask

Balvenie 21 year Portwood

Balvenie 30 year old



I purposely made this one a bit more difficult with my clue. you nailed the first three so i was very curious to see how you did on this one!

your notes are good and the sweetness you pick up on is very understandable. i'm really really surprised you didn't pick up on the correct distillery though as their spirits are generally very distinctive. 

this one was actually the Balvenie 14 Caribbean Cask. i couldn't believe it wasn't on your list of reviews already! you were pretty close on age, slightly off on ABV (43%), and picked up on some kind of different sweet finish



Current Whisky Network Average Score = 79.42

Standard Deviation = 8.03

Skewness = -2.00237

Kurtosis = 6.90049
