Day five of my MoM advent calendar.

Bowmore are hit and miss for me (and I imagine many of you are in the same boat). Sometimes they?re tasty, other times unremarkable. I had a Hart Brothers IB a year or two ago that was better than any of the official line I?m familiar with. And yet, I can?t remember the 12 being one of the OBs I?ve tasted. So here we go, my first OB Bowmore review.

Bowmore 12. Islay single malt, bottled at 40% ABV. Local bottle price: $78 for 700mL.

Nose: An Islay that smells like an Islay. Strong peat smoke, sea spray saltiness, and bright lemon zest. Citrus element develops in the glass to include grapefruit juice, as well as a hint of underripe banana. Seems younger than it is. Sharp, distinct alcohol note is unavoidable. 

Palate: Entry of honey and hard caramels. Medium bodied, with a vanilla malt note accompanying a creamy mouthfeel. Soft and pleasant on the palate, with all the characteristic peat and smoke elements disappearing.

Finish: Immediate return of pronounced smoke upon arrival, spiking before giving way to more sweetness. Raw granulated sugar and cloying honey, with a waxy weight that lingers for a medium-long length. Subtle touches of sweet peas and almond butter.

Nose isn?t great, but the palate and finish are perfectly drinkable. 40% don?t hurt it too much; there?s enough happening to stop the dilution neutering it completely. Better than some of the older expressions from the distillery, and better than a lot of 12yo benchmarks (but still behind most of its Islay neighbours). 

75/100



Some of them (particularly Teeling)

I rave on about Teeling to whisky friends of mine: imagine a fresh rum cask, bottled at 46%, NCF, NC, tastes great and for $50. It's kinda crazy when you think about it. Scottish distillers seem to be able to get away with $100+ for those kinda stats.

EDIT: the teeling single grain red-wine finish is coming to Aus early next year.



red wine finish

yes please



Bowmore 12yr.

40% ABV

Nose: An earthy peat calmly makes its way to your nose.  It doesn't smack you in the face, nor does it take too long to arrive.  It is smoke built from coastal salt and just a touch of seaweed.  Under that we find a bit of lemon and figs.  Chocolate and citrus intertwine and fade in and out.

Taste:  The peat dominates the arrival but settles down quickly to allow subtle sultana and toffee notes to be heard.  A good balance of Islay smokiness and sweet chocolate and caramel.  What was present in the nose successfully transfers over to the palate.  We get more briny salt and sweet citrus.

Finish: The finish lingers and sweetens slightly near the end, as such we are treated more dried fruit notes.  Chocolate covered raisins and plums.  Mild hints of spice working along side some steeped tea.

A good mix of velvety smoke and sweet candy.  One only wishes Bowmore would present this whisky in a more craft orientated way.  It is one of the cheaper Islay single malts, so perhaps this may be too much to ask for.  After a dram or two, the experience softens far too much and leaves one wishing the third glass was as interesting as the first.

87/100

Here we go - the Bowmore everyone loves to hate.

Isnt that title reserved for the legend?

I've had both the 12 and the legend, and while the 12 doesnt live up to something like a laphroaig 10, it is a decent scotch, and i even think the legend is worth the price (it is by far the cheaper single malt islay i can find)



Greetings Scotchit! Time to review the basic range of the last Islay distillery I've yet to review (except for a Feis Ile release). Bowmore doesn't have a great rep, and that might well be deserved. However, I haven't tried any of the standard range Bowmores for a good long while, so I'd like to think that I'm coming into this pretty unbiased.

This time around I have the basic 12 and the 15 "Darkest", a name I'm rather opposed to considering Bowmore's tendency to add colour to everything. Regardless, I think the 12 is mainly bourbon casks and the 15 is finished in sherry casks.

Let's start with the 12. 

Bowmore 12
Islay, 40% ABV, chill-filtered, E150, 50ml mini

Nose: Peat smoke. Floral and lightly perfume-y. Dry leaves and toasted oak. Light toffee and red apples. Salty sea air.

Surprisingly delicate. There's smoke, but there's also a sweeter, floral influence up front. It's a bit fainter than I'd like, probably due to the ABV, making it hard to pick apart the aromas. Not an offensive nose, though.

Taste: Salt and smoke. Red apples and raisins. Floral sweetness and toasted oak. Light caramel and vanilla. White pepper. After 5 seconds, acrid bitterness. 

Not great here. There's a very acrid type of note that dominates the palate, hiding everything else behind it. It's quite sweet, but that off note really ruins what could be a pretty decent affair. 

Finish: Short. Surprisingly hot. Bitterness. Smoke. Toffee and toasted oak. Pepper and salt. 

Burns the tongue after swallowing, along with a little too much throat burn. Rather harsh finish, continuing where the palate left off with that nasty bitter note.

Summary: Don't keep this in your mouth too long. I tried a few sips where I just swallowed immediately, and most of the off notes are suppressed by doing that. However, I don't really regard that as a positive for a single malt. It's kind of a shame, though, since there's nothing particularly wrong with the nose - it's just everything else that makes this somewhat unpleasant.

Granted, this stuff is cheap and just barely more expensive than a mid-range blend, so perhaps there's something to be said for that. I don't think it's worth the money, though. Shame about the presentation, too. 

Score: 69/100
Disappointing.

Buy Again? God no.

One of the best single malts I've ever had, period, was a sample of an independent bottle of Bowmore, 15year sherry cask, cask strength. It was downright incredible. Otherwise I've only had the standard 12 at a bar and honestly thought it was fine. I mean, it's a 40% chill filtered coloring added scotch, so it has that quality going for it, but it was enjoyable enough. Given local prices I'd still go with a Laphroaig 10 (they are about the same around me), but for a bar dram I liked it.

So wish I could get my hands on that independent bottling though.



This was aged for 12 years in a combination of ex-bourbon, ex-sherry, and refill casks and bottled at 40% ABV.  Chill filtered and artificially colored.

?

Nose:  Peat smoke.  Iodine.  Yeast.  Chalkiness.

Palate:  Medium light mouthfeel.  Sweet and spicy peat.  Oranges and lemon zest.  Barbeque.  More chalk.  Menthol.

Finish:  Medium finish.  More spice and now more earthy.  Iodine again.  A bit of black pepper.  Anise.  The peat smoke continues but gets a little gross somehow.  Not sure to explain it. 

Score: 80/100

I had this at the distillery during Feis Ile and was completely underwhelmed.  But I had been tasting some amazing whisky that day.  Revisiting it today, I think its better than I initially thought.  But its not great by any means.  Pretty average boring stuff with something weird going on with the finish.  I doubt I would choose to drink this often.  So far I'm not much of a fan of Bowmore OBs (at least the lower end ones I've tried), but I have had some good IBs and I'm eager to try more of them.

?

/u/review_bot 'Bowmore'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Bowmore:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with a duel review of Bowmore 12 year 80 proof.  With all the talk of how much I don't care for any Bowmore I've ever had, I thought I would try yet another!  Rusty was the sucker who bought it though ;)

Color:  E150a 100%

Nose:  Dirty Wash Rag covered in mild Pickle Juice.  Smokey Mothballs.  Candied Raisins.  White plain bar soap.

Taste:  Detergent/Chemicals.  Smokey Black Sharpie. Peat Bile mixed with Watery Plastic.  Some Vanilla underneath the BBQ pigs feet. 

Finish: all around a bad time.

yeah no, strike 4.  as a reviewer, I must try as much as I can though, so I'm glad to review it in that sense at least.   its vile.  Rusty bought it because it's an older bottling, thinking it might be better, but its no different then today's - terrible.

51/100



I bought a bottle of this pretty early in my journey through Scotch, as I think Serge or someone like that thought well of this bottle at the time, and upon opening the bottle, I was pleasantly surprised. That is...until the rest of the bottle happened, as I also remember struggling to finish it. Lets see how this holds up a few hundred Scotches later?

Thanks to /u/ATLien050 for the sample. This is 12 years old, 40% abv, likely chill filtered and colored.

Nose - Rather muted. I?m getting black pepper, an oceany note, artificial caramels (think those individually wrapped Brach?s things), vanilla, and smoke. Not bad, and not the unapologetic peaty beast its neighbors can be.

Palate - Starts sweet/salty, with seaweed, vanilla and caramel. The development brings some smoke and spice - black pepper and ginger primarily. Light body - this is definitely trying to be ?smooth?. Fairly pleasant through this stage (foreshadowing).

Finish - The smoke note turns a bit acrid and off putting here, especially as it lingers. The vanilla, caramel, seaweed and spice notes all continue here too, though the sweet notes here also become a bit off - almost as if an artificial sweetener has been used.

I?ve called this the worst entry level Islay before, and I stand by that. The sweetness this one has just seems weird to me, and the smokiness on the finish isn?t quite what it should be either. Until the finish, things were going just fine, if not downright pleasant, but the finish reminds me most of the old style Black Bottle, which isn?t a compliment, as that?s a $20 blend.

76/100



Pretty much like the US grading system. 80 is the cutoff I use for whether or not I enjoy drinking something irrespective of price etc (it's usually the B- cutoff for grading, which, in a megaclass at State U is generally indicative of the top half of the class).

My average is around 86-87 across 400something reviews on the whiskey network, though that's due in part to selection bias - e.g., I've reviewed double digit BTAC's.



Thanks for the review. Always good to see entry-level bottles covered by experienced reviewers.

And I fully agree on this one - it should work, but somehow it just doesn't.  A very poor OB from Islay.



So I was out at the bar with friends, and the place had zero good beers on tap so I decided to go with some scotch. 

Appearance: dark and obviously artificially coloured

Nose: sweet fruit, floral notes, maple

Taste: peaty, little bit of iodine. pretty simple

Finish: peat, very short, but sweeter floral notes linger

a disappointing dram for an Islay. lacks the depth of most others I've tried/bought. too bad it cost me $9 at the bar :S

Rating: 78/100

I was somewhat excited to try this one as I understand it's discontinued, and has been for some time, (replaced by the 12yr). I haven't had a lot of lowlands, but thought this could be an interesting dram. also noticed no other reviews of it on here so i figured why not break new ground!

appearance: medium colour, possibly some e150 but not a ton

Nose: very light nose, some floral notes, vanilla

Taste: very strange right from the start. no alcohol burn at all, musty basement, very weak flavour. I believe it must be an old bottle that's oxidized and no longer suitable for drinking.

Finish: musty taste lingers, dust, orange, maybe some seafood? 

incredibly disappointing and I told the bartender that I didn't think the bottle was good anymore. probably not a good representation of what Glenkinchie has to offer, but has certainly deterred me from going out to get a bottle of the 12. 

Rating: 44/100



The Bowmore 12 is $30 for a bottle at a grocery store near my house, so as a cheap single malt Islay it's not a bad get. (For comparison, I can't get Laphroaig 10 for less than $70 at the same spot.) 

The real scandal is that they charged $9 at the bar. 



Bowmore... The distillery we love to hate. French whores, chill filtration and colouring aplenty. It's got it all. 

I'll be putting up a few reviews over the next few days. Let's start with the 12yo.

It's a bit of an odd one because I had a good batch in 2014 that impressed me and I had it again when I visited the distillery and it was very one dimensional. The notes and score are a combination of the two.

Bowmore 12 year old 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Medium

Nose: 2015: Oily, waxy, candles, malty, cereal, brooding smoke, ash, grassy heather and hay. 

2016: Marzipan and more marzipan. Some smoke.

Taste: 2015: More smoky than the nose. Quite oily, grass, hay, peat smoke, burnt twigs, salt, black pepper, toffee and a metallic note- iron. 

2016: Marzipan and honeyed sweetness. A bit flat from the abv without much development.

Finish: Medium length. 2015: Hay and salt. 

2016: Marzipan and some smoke.

Wasn't expecting this to be as good as it was, 2014 tasting. A much less complex experience at the distillery, 2015 tasting.

Original score: 73
New score: 66

69/100



Network Average: 76.2

Best Score: 91

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



I've noticed a lot of samples piling up around the house... Time to start working through them. What a hard life I lead.

Awhile ago I made a joke concerning the general view of Bowmore on this Subreddit, stating it was generally maligned (even above Jura). And while older Bowmore's typically get good praise, the younger ones usually have mixed reviews. This is odd as this is the largest Islay Distillery, and you'd expect that a bunch of peatheads like us would find an Islay good no matter what.

I realized that I hadn't tried Bowmore just yet, and so headed out to purchase the Bowmore Distiller's Collection.  You all probably know what happened when I bought it (security, blah, whine, first world problems, etc.), and now that I'm finally over my cold, I can review them.

So without further rambling (HA! Like I can stop rambling), here's my introduction to Bowmore.

Price for Distiller's Collection: $24.50 (CAD)

Bowmore 12

Abv: 40%

Price: $51.35 (CAD) for a 750ml

Region: Islay

Colour: Burnt Orange

Nose: Peat, smoke, pepper, sea salt, mango, cardamon

Hey, this doesn't smell too rough. It's quite light though. Maybe I was wrong for making a joke about this place.

Taste: Watered down OJ, burn, peat, salt, pepper, chocolate

On second thought... This is very bi-polar. And the only flavour that isn't weak is the burn. Not happy.

Finish: Sour mashed oranges, peat, leather, onion, cumin, cocoa

Well... the finish has a medium length on it. Which is nice, because if it was longer I'd probably have to scrape my tongue with an SOS pad.

Conclusion: Nice nose, not so great taste, rough ass finish. Just not my thing. I'm surprised there's an Islay I don't like, but this is it.

68/100

