REVIEW #148: Bowmore 15 year Darkest - 43% abv

Nose:  Perfumey, raisins, dried flowers, cloves, anise, soft, subtle peat, sour vegetal, salted butter, cinnamon, nutmeg, pine sap

Taste: sweet, peanut brittle, peat, caramel, burnt sugar, custard, sour astringent vegetal, asparagus, melon rind, dried lemon zest, black pepper, peppery oaky tannins, sweet/sour, tea, ginger bite

Finish: Sour, bitter, vegetal, peat, malt, dry cocoa powder, tea, ginger, cilantro/herbal

Score: 83/100 

Buy a full bottle? No

Closing Thoughts: I guess Bowmore?s signature is the astringent sour bittersweet vegetal note?  No thanks.

EDIT: messed up my scores.  Fixed 'em.



Review #99

Alright folks, I?ve had many offerings from the much contested Bowmore (including some pretty high end IB?s) but apparently I?ve never done a formal review. I am not normally a fan of Bowmore as a rule of thumb but I will do my best to make this unbiased and purely objective.

Bowmore Darkest 15 Years, Islay, 43% ABV

Nose: Dull subdued smoky sherry. Lively vegetal peat. Figs and caramel? treacle. Lemon, nutmeg, celery salt.

Palate: Very deep oaky smoke. Artificial sweetener, deeply burning, expired ashy peat.

Finish: Astringent, touch of mint oil and lingering artificial ?liquid smoke?. Sickly sweet turns quite bitter indeed.

75/100

This stuff just feels forced, it?s got potential with some very interesting flavor profile combinations, but they all seem so deliberate that it becomes hard to take the dram serious? think ?shock and awe campaign? in a glass.



The label should read "Bowmore 15 E150".

Edit: Or "Bowmore E150".



I noticed a couple of things...:

One more review and you got one hundred. Gonna pick a special one for that?

Bowmore is not especially popular.

I need a drink. TGIF.

Edit: I need a dram of good scotch.



Yikes. It seems like something with the Bowmore distillery has gone terribly wrong at some point. I always hear / read great things about their earlier whiskies (1970's 1980's) on podcast's and from veterans and then I read of their current offerings here and it makes my tongue curl up.

Thanks for the review! Dang 99! You've been on a roll lately, looking forward to your century graduation to 100! :D



All veteran drinkers love Bowmore.

This is a confusing statement, could you elaborate? Any particular expressions that may stand out. Just trying to find out if I shouldn't write off Bowmore entirely. We've got a number of Bomore reviews but the only one to break the mid 90's score is from an Indipendent bottler.

After that there are some 90's again from IB's. Not trying to offend here, but it seems like most people that try Bowmore aren't too pleased with their standard fair.

Seems like the best way to get a good Bowmore is get something pre-yamazaki or an IB? Do you have a favorite expression? Thanks! 



I think it was once a great distillery so older drinkers know the name and may have enjoyed it in the past. 

I attended a Yamazaki, Bowmore, Auchentoshan tasting evening and none of the Bowmore offerings appealed to me. I enjoy heavy oily mouth feel and the ones I tried were really light. 

The gentleman running the evening said that his two favourite distilleries are Glenfarclas and Bowmore. 

Auchentoshan triple wood was my favourite single malt from those distilleries that we sampled. 



Bowmore 15 Darkest / 43%

Tasted neat

It's no suprise to regulars of this sub that I passionately hate Bowmore 10/12, but have turned softer towards Bowmore in the 18+ range.  Well, I tried this dram in a Tokyo tasting bar, and had to pick up a bottle back stateside to further evaluate it.  This one is finished in Sherry, and is somewhere between the age range I hate and love.

OK, I've finally found a regular issue Bowmore I like, this is actually quite amazing.  It's not as clean as the Laphroaig Portwood, but it's a delicious blending of the peatier side of our universe with the sweeter, sherried side.

Rating: 93/100

115th /r/scotch review



Single malt. Islay. 40% ABV.

Score: 84/100

One of my dram club samples. Trying a new Bowmore is always a crap shoot.  This is one of the better ones, although it kind of fizzles out at the end. It's surprising given that it spent 3 years in Oloroso sherry casks. It could be really good if it had a stronger finish.

I can get a bottle for around $60 on sale, which I think is a bit much for this. I'd reconsider if it were closer to $40.



I've probably had others but the only ones I reviewed are the standard 12 year old, which I did not enjoy, and an 8 year old by Murray McDavid which was great. This falls somewhere in the middle. 

I also have a sample of a 15 year old 2012 Feis Ile release. It's cask strength, so I have high hopes. 



I recently re-read my notes from a trip a while back to my favorite bar and thought: well, I can't let these go to waste.  Bowmore has a nasty reputation, here and elsewhere, yet it is rather popular.  I like to think of it, with Laphroaig, as one of the "difficult" Islays. Where Laphroaigs hit you with a love-it-or-hate-it medicinal flavor, Bowmores have a hate-it-or-like-it perfume quality that equals the peat.  Personally, I found the "Legend" skippable and the 12 middling, but that didn't stop me from trying out the "Darkest."  So here it is: my one-glass-only review of the best offering I have tried from Islay's oldest distillery.  43%, $70.  

Nose: sherry, caramel, smoke, dark chocolate, and cayenne peppers.  

Taste: dominated by bitter, sour peat and fresh cut grass. Also sherry, banana peel, seaweed, and unripe grapes.  Finishes dry, with peat and attic dust.  

Got a lot of notes out of one glass!  Don't reckon I'd buy a bottle, but Darkest is busy, unique and certainly better than the 12.  My overall take on the experience: candied peat.  Whatever that means.  87/100  



Earlier tonight, I posted a review of a whisky from what is probably scotchit's favourite Islay distillery (Ardbeg Corryvreckan).  Now I will follow it up with a review of what is probably scotchit's least favourite distillery - BOWMORE.

Colour: Dark, Golden, Reddish.  Artificial colouring?  

Nose: Interesting Islay smoke, sherry, apples, grains, urine (sorry),  pear, toffee, turkish delight, vanilla, icing sugar.  Interesting.

Palate: Harsh, punchy, short, fleeting.  Forget a finish, I'm struggling to hang onto the initial flavours.  Sherry, cinnamon, smoke.  Maybe a PINCH of peat.  Alcohol dominates a little too much.  Rich fruity burst of russet apples, pears, cola, cinnamon.  This is interesting? the flavour is intense but doesn't last.

Finish: Alcohol?  Sherry, mint (love this part of the finish, almost reminds me of the spearmint you get in a rye), brown sugar, faint peat and smoke, cinnamon.  

Not bad, not good.  I feel that there are some interesting elements here.  Somewhere in here is a complex dram worth diving into.  Water didn't seem to help it, but letting it breath did.  I want more!  More years in the cask?  Fewer?  No e150?  No chill filtering? Cask strength?  Tell me scotchit, do any independent bottlers offer something really nice from the distillery?  Bowmore is probably the most disliked of Islay distilleries on r/scotch and although this isn't bad, it lacks something to make it really special.  There's potential here.

abv is 43%.  

I give it 81/100 - the 18 got an 86 from me.



Having sherry and peat together in a dram is like having chocolate with peanut butter, or having a beer while you grill. They just go well together. Bowmore OBs tend to get some hate around here, but I still wanted to try this out and see for myself. 12 Years in the bourbon casks and then off to the final 3 in Oroloso. 

Distilled/Owned by: Bowmore / Beam Suntory

Region: Islay

43% ABV

Aged For: 15 Years

Chill Filtered/Color Added? : Yes to both

Color: Chestnut, and you can tell they liberally helped this one along

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn 

Nose: Smokey, raisin, toffee, vanilla, apple, and very gentle peat.

Taste: Watery, but a bit too sweet. Oranges, very slight smoke, walnuts, and almonds.

Finish: Medium in length and intensity, with fruitiness and sherry, as well as some vanilla oak.

Thoughts: A good nose and finish, that are let down by a mediocre palate. I had a chance to dry the Devil?s Cask Batch 2 recently which address my issues with the 15 Darkest, but the jump in price is insane. 

Score: 81/100



Sample from /u/gregbenson314.. Something I have wanted to try for a while, it seems to divide people who love or hate it.

Nose is great, taste is ok, nice sweetness. But nothing else going for it to be honest.

I should point out, I hadn?t touched whisky for almost 2 months before writing this review, so my opinion/scores might be very critical.  



ABV: 43%

Age: 15 years (12 years in bourbon barrels, finished 3 years in Oloroso sherry casks)

Price: $75

Distiller: Bowmore 

Eye: 
Ruddy copper (E150a)

Nose:
Sherry, peat, wood, iodine and vermouth make up the bulk of the nose which is the best part of this whisky. Hanging out beneath those are lighter notes of vanilla, raisins, dried fruit, a moldering hay like maltiness, a touch of caramel and a smoked sausage quality. It all sounds great, but it?s muted and ends up coming across as a watered down version of a good sherried whisky.

Palate:
Like the nose, the palate comes across like a watered down version of something amazing. It leads with notes of smoky peat, a dark fruity sweetness, caramel, sweet red vermouth, brine and iodine. Some muggy notes of smoked meat, cinnamon, baking spices, citrus and ash hang out in the back.

Finish:
A long bitter, tarry and resinous journey of sweet vermouth, sherry, peat, wood and ash.

Balance, Body & Feel:
Doesn?t quite feel balanced with flavors and aromas clashing a bit. The medium body and slick oily texture are nice, but not enough to completely save it.

Score:
82/100

Overall:
Marketing nonsense aside, it?s an ok whisky. It?s not amazing by any means, but there?s enough smoky peat and sherry sweetness from nose to finish to keep things interesting for a bit. It?s when you start contemplating it that the cracks start to show and it comes across as something that was once promising, but has been watered down and tamed. Is it complete garbage? No. Is it worth it?s price? No, and if a nicely sherried smoky whisky is what you?re looking for I?d spent the extra $8 and pick up the Talisker Distiller?s Edition instead.



Congrats on reaching 60 reviews!

You write great reviews. Both your reviews on /r/bourbon and /r/scotch are very enjoyable to read. 

Have you tried the Devil's Cask or the Laimrig?
They are without a doubt going to do the Bowmore profile much more justice than this one.  



Thank you very much :)

Devil's Casks yes. I like it quite a bit, but haven't tried the Laimrig yet. Though I would like to.



Hey, sorry that I didn't provide a link last time and that my comment went on the wrong thread.  I've been using a new mobile client, and sometimes things go weird.

My Inventory: http://www.reddit.com/r/whiskyinventory/comments/2m1kn4/kdz13_usa_lancaster_pa/

What's your site?
