Hello /r/scotch Mail_Me_Yuengling here and this is my first attempt at a Scotch Review. Let me fill you in on something real quick before I get to the review. I hated whisky with a passion until a few years ago when I discovered Crown Royal. I started drinking (and enjoying) Scotch about a year ago. So far I would have to say that I am mostly drawn to Islays and heavy peated ones at that. I am a full blown Scotch lover now and this subreddit has been a great help with advancing my love for Scotch, so thank you!

Bruichladdich Rocks: 46% ABV

Color: Colonial Maple with some Cherry added. I have yet to see another Scotch with the pink hue of Rocks 

Nose: Peppermint and medicine. Hints of sea air and wild flowers

Taste: Strawberry followed by toasted almonds. Salt water taffy and caramel

Finish: Smooth and sweet followed by a good bite and warmth in the chest

I enjoyed this very much and at $38 a bottle I would pick it up again.

89/100

Edit: sweet not "sweeet"



Great review and great whisky.  I have to commend you on I think doing a better job than me of putting this very complex whisky into words.  Bruichladdich Rocks is probably my favorite $30 dollar whisky even above Laphroaig 10.  If you want to try ranother fantastic pink Bruichladdich look out for Black Arts 2 which should be hitting stores soon and I would score in the mid 90's.  It is a bit pricey but very good.  

Don't foget to archive and would you like some flair?



Thank you for the kind words. I look forward to reviewing more as the Scotch comes to me. I'll keep an eye out for Black Arts 2, but honestly I am often just on the NH liquor commission's website looking for sales. When I saw the Rocks was on sale I had to run down and get some. 

And yes I would love some flair. Thanks. 



"...too much good whiskey is barely enough"

is that too long?



thank you for understanding

Edit: I would accept "whisky" as the proper spelling in my flair 



Nice review

I reviewed this one myself a while back.  I agree with you, definitely worth picking up again.  

So far this is the only Bruichladdich I have tried and am looking forward to some of their other expressions...just hard to make sense out of all them sometimes!



The Octomore is insanely good, as is the Infinity.  Ardbeg_head keeps raving about the Black arts, but still hasn't shared any with me.

On the cheaper side, the Laddie Ten really holds it's own.



Yeah I have heard great things of the Laddie Ten and both the Octomore and Infinity.... sad thing is there isn't a single liquor store near me that carries any of the Bruichladdich line... I will have to order it somewhere.

Haven't priced the Infinity but the Octomore if I recall was quite pricey.   If I can even hang on to a bottle or two for any extended period of time I might have to venture over to /r/ScotchSwap and try to wrestle some out of someone!



The only bad thing about that is that most everything I can get most everyone else can too and it's usually cheaper for them!

Only thing I think of good value for me here is a Laphroaig 18 for $75.... beyond that the prices suck.... Laphroaig 10 is $50, hell Glenlivet 12 and Johnny Black are both close to the $40 mark here!  Ardbeg 10 is close to $70.... the list goes on and on!  sigh



First off, I'll trade 2 bottles of Quarter Cask for a bottle of Laphroaig 18 any day.  Or, a bottle of double wood and a bottle of QC.  Or, Uigeadail or Corryvreckan for Laphroaig .

More importantly, though, if I have access to bottles you would want and live in a state that people online will ship alcohol to, then your choices are pretty vast.  Example:  You buy someone a bottle of something they can't find locally online and ship directly to them.  Then, they ship you bottles of whatever you wanted them to get you from what they have available.



I might have to take you up on that!

I have yet to try the QC and do not have it available in my area.  I don't think I would want two bottles of it though, or a DW and a QC.  been moving about and trying something different each time and haven't really re-bought bottles I have finished in quite a while...

not knowing what prices are in your area or what not, if you don't mind throw me some more suggestions out there of things you would pair with a QC for a Laphroaig 18 and I may take you up on that.

thanks!



Hmmm....I'm not in town right now, but I may be able to go in the next couple days.  Some stuff that I'd trade straight up for the 18 would be a'Bunadh, Uigeadail, Corryvreckan, Glenmorangie 18 (if it's still on sale, it's normally $150) or a bottle of the Balvenie Tun 1401 if you sent an extra $200 with the Laph 18.  :-)

The DW and QC are two really good whiskies, and happen to be ones that I get great deals on.  So, I'd go that route if you haven't had either.  But it's your call.  I'll scope out the $30-50 price range for a couple more deals as soon as I can swing by there again.



cool thanks.

I have a partial bottle of the A'Bunadh still and have had the Uigeadail.  not yet had the Corryvreckan or the Glenmorangie.  

I have had the DW before, it was pretty good.  I was very disappointed in the Caribbean Cask I ordered in one time but found the 15 SB and DW to be pretty good.

Around here my $35 - $50 price range is pretty limited!  only things under $40 is Glenlivet 12, JW Black/Red, and Bowmore Legend.  guess there isn't much demand for good scotch in my area... just no real place with a decent selection



The Lagavulin is excellent.  Especially the 12 Cask Strength.  If you like the 16 you should really pick up the 12 if you find it somewhere.  Depending on where you live the 12 may cost a bit more but it is well worth it.  I ordered mine online from Arlington Wines and with shipping it ran me about $10 less than the 16 is for me.

I tend to cap my nights off with either W.L Weller 90 or Knob Creek.  Can't say I have ever had Old Crowe.  

cheers!



I don't typically mix mine so I will steer clear of it!

You should try the Weller sometime... pretty tasty stuff.  Its wheated so its a tad on the sweet side but not overpoweringly so.

They have 3 that I have tried and liked, the W.L. Weller Special Reserve 90, the 12 Y.O. 90, and the Antique 107.  The 107 is by far the best with the SR 90 coming in second.  the 12 YO 90 is good but priced the same as the 107 and given a choice between the two I would happily take the 107.  the SR 90 is good also, only runs about $15 too so its on the cheap.  

In liking Knob Creek have you tried any other of the Jim Beam Small Batch collection?  They have a Knob Creek Single Barrel that is very good.  Baker's is super smooth and quite nice, as is Basil Hayden's although Basil's to me it a little too sweet and I typically only have a glass of it for "dessert" when I am out somewhere.   The Booker's is an exceptional barrel strength bourbon.  one of my favorites.  

a bit on the pricey side though, upward of $55 or so depending on where you live.... I prefer Scotch to bourbon so getting into that price for a bourbon I almost always pass it up for a bottle of Scotch instead though.



Have you tried the Laddie 10?

(I'm a shameless promoter of this excellent whisky)



Bruichladdich Rocks

Background:: $45, 46% ABV, an evening (well, a few evenings) at home

Appearance: Peach, like the last colors reflecting off the clouds after sunset

Nose: It says ?unpeated? right on the label, but I swear that?s peat. Faint floral and fruit. Rubber. Something green, like hay or grass. Honey. A very strong sense of dampness - damp heather, mildew, it just smells damp somehow. Old damp smoke. (And now ?damp? is no longer a word.) Oh hey, what?s this? After some time in the glass the wondrous burnt caramel appears. Ahh, yes. And socks.

Taste: Thin mouthfeel. Starts out light and fruity followed by red hots and oak. After about 45 minutes buttery caramel appears. Yum.

Finish: Smoky, earthy, growing heat. Slightly sweet and winey. Long lasting, turning dry. A very enjoyable finish.

Notes: Tastes like a combination of Talisker 10 and Dalwhinnie 15. Very enjoyable. Don?t be fooled by ?damp? and ?socks?, the nose was pleasant and light. And damp. I?d appreciate the caramel a bit earlier, but even before it appears this is a nice dram. I?m definitely going to enjoy this bottle.

I?ll have you know that now whenever I smell the burning dust from my heat kicking on, all I can think is how nice that would taste as a scotch. Mmm, smoky...

Score: I was thinking 80 until the burnt caramel appeared. 84

Buy again: Well I would, but apparently it won?t be an option for long, and I don?t love it so much that I feel a need to stockpile it.



A little bit of apple or melon. Similar to the fruit in Dalwhinnie, but earthier, maybe, and peatier. Is that a word?

I liked it enough that I will probably upgrade to the Laddie 10 next go 'round, assuming they don't hike the price up too far.



Bruichladdich Rocks, 46.0% ABV, $40

Nose: Warm honey hits first, followed by a hint of cinnamon spice. The honey is deep and rich, backed by caramel and toffee. Oak creeps round the edges, walking hand in hand with vanilla. A wisp of seaside air jumps up, reminding me of the Scottish coast. There's some depth, some warmth here. Not a light and floral nose, but a deep, sweet, malty nose.

Taste: Honey and caramel come first. The caramel is rounded out by a wonderful toffee flavor, followed by an oak river that's teeming with vanilla. Cinnamon and nutmeg jump right up in the center of the palate, giving a pleasant reminder that this is a brilliant fall day. There's a hint of brine around the edges, like waves beckoning. This isn't overly complex, but heavens does it have depth. Nice and thick and delicious.

Finish: A sweet finish that lingers for a bit, making way for a cinnamon and oak flavored enjoyment. Really quite pleasant.

Overall: A deep, rich malt, that, although the label says Islay, the whiskey doesn't. I was a bit worried, as I know these NAS releases by Bruichladdich are usually fairly young, but this one is very well done. It's not overly harsh, and the finish doesn't evaporate immediately. I'm duly impressed with this malt, especially at the price point. It's splendid for a fall day, like today. It also helps that I live in what looks like a movie set right now.

Score: 88/100

I like plaid.



Thanks to /r/scotchswap I have the opportunity to sample/examine two Bruichladdich offerings. Why not do them both in one night? It's a lot of fun to get little drams by mail and write about them! The comprise reviews 17 and 18. Overall, I enjoyed both of these Bruichladdich drams. If I were to buy a bottle I would probably pick the An Turas Mor, but I'm of the peaty persuasion. Rocks was more fruity than An Turas Mor. I was more convinced by the peat-malt-medicinal balance of the An Turas Mor than the fruit-herb-spice-peat of the Rocks.

Islay

Price: Swap!

Reviewed: 24 October 2012

Score: 88/100

Color: Pale Golden, A bit more so than Rocks?

Nose: Peat, Medicinal/Iodine (malty), Brine, Spices (not just pepper, maybe clove or something along those lines)

Palate: Peat, Smoked Meats, Malty Sweetness, Honey, Pepper. Iodine / Brine.

Finish: Oily, Buttery Finish. Meaty with Peat, Malt and Medicinal in balance

Right when opening and pouring my mini-dram, I could smell the peat. This one is definitely sure to offend those who hate smoke/peat/medicinal. Very balanced in terms of sweet and smoke/peat character. I like the bit of medicinal in this one. It's not like you're eating band-aids, but you pick up the sea-vegetable-iodine taste in the finish. Not Laphroaig levels mind you. The interplay between the iodine and spice character is interesting. I found myself trying to figure out if it was spice or sea that I was smelling, but it's likely some combination of the two.

Islay

Price: Swap!

Reviewed: 24 October 2012

Score: 85/100

Color: Pale, Golden

Nose: Peat, Spice/Pepper, Smoke, Herbal/Vegetal, Grassy, Honey, Floral

Palate: Sweet, Peat, Spice/Pepper, Fruit, Malt/Meaty, Smoke, Grass

Finish: Malty, Sweet, somewhat smoky/peaty finish

Got this in a trade (thanks cleric04). Initially I thought it reminded me a little of HP12. Pouring a tiny bit of HP12 proves that memory to be a fallacy. Rocks is much more vegetal and spicy, and floral, HP12 much more peaty/smoky, both in nose and palate. Its nice to have the ability to cross check yourself (sanity) on these sensory memories. Rocks peat and smoke is much more subdued, a lot of floral and sweet notes come through both in nose and palate. If you hate Islay, you may not hate this in other words.



Bruichladdich Rocks 46% - $61 750ml

Bruichladdich finished in red wine casks

I actually enjoyed this quite a bit more than I thought I would. I had read some mixed reviews and was worried about it. Really interesting mouth feel after the oil fades. Dry and almost powdery feeling. I enjoyed the flavor profile even through the slight bitterness (lol wine?). For the price it?s a good buy, but I don?t think it does anything spectacular enough to warrant a spot on my shelf.

87/100




Jesus. Your review of the Ten is making my mouth water.

Funny enough, I am debating between getting the Ten or HP12 to supplement my newbie "collection" of Aberlour Double Cask, some 'fiddich samples and JW Green. Decisions, decisions.



Wtf dude, leave me out of this!

Great reviews btw



Bruichladdich Rocks

ABV: 46%

Price: $47.89

Visual: Golden with the slightest hint of green.

Nose: Buttered toast, leather, briny sea mist, and  a hint of vinyl. 

Palate: Buttery mouth, strong smoke and musky tobacco. A little peat and iodine, but overall fairly simple.

Finish: Citrus peel, smoke, and stronger peat lingers. It's long which is nice, a skunky barrel flavor, and spicy pepper bite.

Overall: 84/100

This gave me the familiar butter notes of other BL offerings. It had a long finish with lots of peat and burn, and nothing bad really to speak of. The palate is a little simple, but still delicious. This is another good offering from Bruichladdich. I have yet to be disappointed with them and they have are all been different enough to be individually appealing. 



Bruichladdich Rocks 46%

"Unpeated" Islay Whiskey - Purchased for $44.00 USD

Amount consumed - Approx 2 oz.

Color - tanned orange

Nose - sherried fruit, leather, dark chocolate and band aid

Taste - port/red wine notes, coconut, chocolate, a light smokiness

Finish - lingers like a menthol cigarette, with a memory of the band-aid and black pepper

I bought this as an experiment because they specifically say it is unpeated and with the descriptions of some of their varieties sounding so inciting, I needed a starting point.  Many people have said that peat is a source of the iodine/medicinal taste.  I just went back and nosed 
the Talisker 10, Caol Ila 12 and Lagavulin 16 and the medicinal notes in the Rocks are virtually identical in strength to all three. So is it 
the water?  Is it something in the air?  There must be a common factor.

The label states that it is non-chill filtered and colouring free.  There is quite a bit of sediment on the bottom of the bottle and several 
floaters throughout and they are easy to see due to the light color giving evidence to these claims.  I see that the labeling on 
Bruichladdich's site is different then what I have.  I am guessing I have an older batch.

I am really torn with this one because while it is in my mouth, it is quite good. I think the 46% is perfect for this. But, the assault of 
band-aid in the nose and the return on the finish interrupts the pleasure. Without the medicinal notes, I could have seen myself giving this around an 88 but, I have to knock it serious points.  I will continue to revisit this one as there were several qualities I quite enjoyed.  As 
long as I kept drinking it it was fine unfortunately though, I just burped up a band-aid and I feel a bit queasy.

75/100



That I do.  I've got a friend at our local paper that keeps trying to get me to write a food column, due to the spot on reviews I've been casually writing for my friends for the past couple years.  It's no fun when it becomes a job though.

The upside though is that I get a shitload of free food from people wanting me to try their cooking.



I like having you here because of our vast difference in opinion on Islay.  I love peat/smoke/medicinal/iodine, like a lot of people and its great to have the other side of the coin.  its not for everyone and sometimes it might seem like it is from an outsiders point of view.  I do wish you got as much love out of it as I do but to each their own.

I have the newer Rocks and I'm curious since bruichladdich has been going through so many changes if it is different.  most likely not but I wouldnt be surprised.  keep up the good work sir.



Your original comment. 

When I first commented it had one upvote and one downvote...I was just wondering who gave it that downvote because it seemed like a pertinent comment and usually pertinent comments in r/scotch go without any downvotes. 

...not that it matters.



EXACTLY.

This is 100% the reason I absolutely love this subreddit.



My favorites at the moment would be the Balvenie 17 Madeira Cask, Auchentoshan 12 and Aberlour A'bunadh.  I really like the Redbreast 12 and 15 Irish whiskeys and many bourbons.  I was hoping that it was peat that was the turn off for me but apparently there is more to it than that and the Islay region in general seems like it just isn't for me.  The iodine/medicinal notes are just horrendous to my palate.  I scored Talisker 10, Lagavulin 16 and Caol Ila 12 in the low 40's.  For some reason most people either don't pick up these notes or do and choose to omit them from their reviews.

Note my comment about how I would have scored this much higher had it not been for the iodine.



Good, I thought Highland Park for a second, but personally I hate Highland Park with a passion. 

Also, even as an Islay fan, I can understand the hatred towards Laphroaig 10, the iodine in that is approaching unbearable. Just one more question, have you tried anything from Ardbeg?



Well, I wouldn't recommend Ardbeg in that case, it's just like Laproaig minus a bit of the bandaid taste.

It's settled...Laddie 10 is the best Islay to introduce a newcomer. 



Yeahhh... I'm going to have to... errmmm... disagree... yeahh... Scotch is a very personal thing. Some start on Laphroaig and love it - and Bruichladdich isn't for everyone. All I can taste in Bruichladdich (the ones I've had anyway) is oil and floral manure, I really don't like it. Laphroaig on the other hand was the first whisky I ever tried and it's intensely flavoured. 

PS: you have the best flair I've seen here.



Yeah, I worded that badly, I should have gone with 

It's settled...Laddie 10 is the Islay I'm going to try to use to introduce a newcomer.

Also, thank you kind sir.



I'm back with a another group review (#12-#15 if anybody's counting). I've fallen in love with Bruichladdich over the past couple months and thought I'd post my reviews of the four I've had so far.

Bruichladdich Rocks, $50

Color: Pale gold with a hint of pink

Nose: Briny, earthy, sweet, saltwater taffy

Taste: Oily, thin and sweet. Honey, salt, pear and strawberry.

Finish: Very short. What is there is the standard oak and honey flavor.

Conclusion: Overly delicate. The saltiness is good and makes this one of the most unique single malts I've had but the youth comes through in every regard. This was my first experience with Bruichladdich and although it was a little underwhelming it was unique enough to send me out in search of more of their expressions and for that I'm grateful.

83/100

I really enjoy Bruichladdich's stuff.

Some notes:

I tried their Fino Sherry over the weekend. Awesome!



Jim McEwan says in this video that the name is to encourage people to drink it with ice.

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JKYNYFhT3wY



As I said in an earlier review of Bruichladdich 2003 Organic, I have always found McEwan's distillery rather frightening because of how often they release new expressions.  However, sampling this scotch that fear has been alleviated.  

Color:  I cannot say I have ever seen a color like this in a whisky, a pinkish gold.  It is almost like a small drop of pink food coloring has been dropped in a formerly bright gold.

Nose:  A marsh mellow-vanilla base with a small amount of peat providing a slight counterweight to the sweetness.  The longer I draw it in the sweeter and more alluring it becomes as it envelopes the nose.  Complex.  A bold speyside with some islay characteristics.  There is oak in there somewhere.

Palate:  Simply genius!  A sweet tangy rush gently hits the mouth.  Subsequently a salty flavor makes its presence known along with notes of fresh soft caramel.  Under it all ever present is a smokiness that is light and fresh.  This is no ardbeg peat but perhaps a nutty peat.  

Finish:  The finish is long and leaves a nice nutty smoke aftertaste long after it has hit my stomach.  Rocks has a well balanced spice that is more taste than heat.

Overall:  AMAZING!  For the price this is probably the most complex and rewarding scotch I have ever had.  (I did pay $32 for this rather than the $45 msrp that may have some bearing on my decision.)  If you are deciding between this and the organic, get rocks its cheaper and better.  Get a bottle today!  89/100



Overall: AMAZING! For the price this is probably the most complex and rewarding scotch I have ever had. (I did pay $32 for this rather than the $45 msrp that may have some bearing on my decision.) If you are deciding between this and the organic, get rocks its cheaper and better. Get a bottle today! 89/100

Awesome. I finished a bottle of Rocks recently and was curious about the other expressions, including Organic 2003. And the price was right for me too: $36 at my local shop.

Also for others who are curious about Bruichladdich, all of their whiskys have no added coloring and are non-chill filtered.



Bruichladdich's "budget", entry-level expression.

When I first tried this I was blown away by the nose. Over a year later, I still appreciate it, but I think the Laddie 10 probably has it beat. Still excellent for the price. I paid $46.

87/100 (review #15)
