Bruichladdich is my favourite Islay Distillery and only Kilchoman and Ardbeg come close, not only do they produce a wonderful whisky but they also try a lot (Octomore, X4..) and they use so many different casks, especially wine casks, which I think is really awesome. The Classic Laddie is the first Bruichladdich I tried and I still love it, a very cool thing about it, is that you can view all the information about the casks, which went into this Batch, if you enter the Batchnumber on their Website. 

Bruichladdich The Classic Laddie, ABV 50%, matured in ex-wine and ex- bourbon casks, Batchnumber: 16/023

Colour: amber

Nose:quite light and malty but also fresh, barley, cream, seasalt, smells like a light seabreeze, maybe even a really faint note of peat. Fresh Fruits, melon, white peaches and apples, slight sourness like dry white wine, citrus fruitiness, lemon, pineapple and some floral notes. After adding a bit of water the nose becomes less aggressive and I also get a slight vanilla note

Palate: again quite sweet and malty, rich fruitiness, fresh red apples, grapes and melon, sea salt and again more floral notes and herbal notes, wildflowers, heather and mint. A little bit of oak as well, really gentle.

Finish: medium long, quite drying light spiciness some cinnamon and faint liquorice notes. Some herbal notes, some fruitiness, especially ripe white peaches and green apples. Again some saltiness and I also get a faint note of peat. After some time a light sourness evolves, reminds me of lemon or lime zest. After some more time the slightly nutty notes but also some red grapes and sweet blueberries are faintly lingering on the tounge.

Although it is quite young and light, I really enjoyed this, especially because it reminds of the sea combined with gentle fruity and floral notes. I enjoy this combination a lot, and it is also really distinct.  88/100



Did you know you can find out all the info about every barrel that went into making that bottle, including the age? Just go here, it's the Laddie page on the Bruichladdich website. Look for the "Laddie Recipe" spot to enter a code from your bottle.

EDIT:posted before reading your review, I see you already knew that! Thanks for posting the batch number though, I like looking at these. Interestingly enough, my last bottle from 2014 was entirely 7-10 year old barrels, yours is 8-11. I wonder if they're slowly working back up to an older whisky, or if that's just how these batches happened to turn out.



Hello Scotchit. It's been a while since my last scotch review (I've been going through more bourbon and rye lately), so here's a review of a nice malty moment:

Scotch whisky review 14

Bruichladdich Scottish Barley, 46% abv

Price: $52

Nose: Sweet and slightly salty cereal with cream. Freshly-cut grass with a little damp earth. Peppery lemon zest in the background.

Body: Medium

Taste: Tons of nice vanilla malt. Freshly-cracked black pepper. Lemon zest. Light oak in the background. Clean and straightforward.

Finish: Light medicinal peat smoke leads to a nice toasted cereal warmth. Relatively short length.

A clean and straightforward whisky. This is a very pure expression of barley flavors, and it offers a nice change of pace from big peated and sherried flavors in my other scotches. I probably won't buy another bottle, but I certainly don't regret purchasing it. Definitely give it a try if you like malty malts.

Score: 81/100



This is a very pure expression of barley flavors

I bought this one last week and this is spot on. Plus the peat notes of course. I gotta say, it's one of my favorites at the moment. 



Most people with that many young laddies in their homes end up getting arrested ;-)

Great reviews!



Quebec eh? 

check out /r/canadawhisky

also, the LCBO is going to be out of 6.1 soon too... i'm so indecisive... $200 is steep



haha it's pretty new! i set it up when the post about making regional sub-reddits happened. 

we have an automated monthly round-up too that pulls in posts by Canadian members from across the whisky network.. you just have to add yourself to it... check out the thread. 

I only know of two QC members on the sub including yourself, though about 10 of the members are unaccounted for. add your location to your flair and other QC or eastern ON folks will be able to find you and set up swaps/meet-ups.



Hullo chaps!

Welcome to my 34th review. This time around, I'm having a look at the most standard expression out of Bruichladdich on Islay. I bought a set of three 20cl bottles recently, and so far I've reviewed the Port Charlotte. I've yet to open the Islay Barley, but I will in due time. Don't push me. I get twitchy when people push me. And when I'm twitchy, I drink. So, actually, maybe push me a bit. Assholes.
As I was saying, this is actually the first standard Bruichladdich from the new NAS regime that I've tried. I had the old 16 y/o (not a The Laddie IIRC. I believe it was an even older release.) in a bar, which utterly disappointed me, so I didn't know what to expect here. If you wanna know, then I recommend reading what's below. Sk?l!

Colour: Didn't I just fucking say it's NCA!? Looks like whisky.

Nose:
Creamy vanilla, orange rind, custard, Triple Sec (Grand Marnier Yellow, maybe?), smoked bacon, panna cotta, suppa inglese, malt, hay. Fucking mint!? Took a while to catch that. I cheated and looked up the whisky on their site...
This I like. Really, it has a really good nose. It was better when I first cracked the bottle, but still holds up. When I took out the cork the first time, there was this delicious custard-y smell. Literally the best scent I've ever experienced in a whisky. Unfortunately, it has disappeared.

Taste:
Malty citrus, umami, Champagne, good salt, mint again, real green apple.
Not as good as the nose, though I recall it was better when it had yet to oxidise. Still a bloody delicious whisky. I'm sure that I am not getting all the notes to get here, but I tried. It is rather complex, but without being confusing.

Finish:
A whiff of smoke creeps up with a burp, and some malty, bready fruitiness hangs around, followed by a slight bitterness. Doesn't stick around as long as I like, but it develops a bit, fortunately.

Thoughts:
Buy one. It's good. McEwan got to show the world that NAS can be done right. After Ardbeg did it for a bajillion years. But that's besides the point. I want to buy a few cases of this, and then just inhale the virgin cork pop, and drink the first 2-3 drams from each bottle. Joking aside, I might actually find me a bottle of this. See how it develops after a few months time. Maybe mix some port in it.
Now, I really like the Port Charlotte Scottish Barley, but I don't know if this was better or not. It sure as shit has a long name, I'll give it that. Thanks for that one, Jim...

Cheers for reading my rambles!



bready fruitiness

I never had the 10 yr, sadly, and I'd never had this one, either, until I bought this one on a whim and took it to the in-law's Christmas weekend.  It took me a little while to warm up to it, but in the end I thought it was a pretty great value.

And I'd say "bready fruitiness" describes this one very well from nose to finish.

Thanks for the review!



The 10 year was fantastic.  This one isn't bad (I think I gave it an 81 myself), but it's a noticeable downgrade from their 10, which really did punch above its weight.

Nice review, OP!



Bruichladdich the Classic Laddie 10, non-chill filtered, 46% ABV

I finally got around to trying my first un-peaty Islay scotch, and wow, I should have done this earlier in my life.  This is the first Bruichladdich I?ve ever tasted, and as such, if I had been tasting it blind, not knowing it was largely unpeated, I?d have never guessed it was an Islay whisky.  The almost total absence of any peaty flavor makes it different from almost every Islay product I?ve ever had.

And jeepers, it was good, especially for a 10.  How I wish Bruichladdich kept it around rather than axing it for the NAS Scottish Barley, because that?s less ego-bruising than kicking myself for being a johnny-come-lately to this product.  The Laddie 10 is now, for me, the gold standard of unpeated 10-year-old whiskies that I will compare all other unpeated 10-year-old drams to for time being.

Before getting onto the review, I?ll confess to being a bit torn by Bruichladdich?s overall approach to its range?as a general rule, I tend to be more wary of NAS products replacing the age statement stuff (as opposed to a limited edition NAS that is introduced outside the core range), as the Scottish Barley is doing with the 10, but I appreciate that even their entry-level expression is bottled at above 40% ABV, and as I usually don?t even bother including color in my reviews because of many brands? love affair with e150a, it is so nice to know that Bruichladdich apparently eschews all use of it.

Nose: Very strong floral notes, accompanied by hints of honeycomb and woodiness, like walking through a botanical garden in full bloom (which, incidentally, I had done earlier in the week when I reviewed it, and the 10 immediately took me back to it, which impressed me).

Body: Very light but with just enough of a mouthfeel so as to be not a hindrance to the experience.

Palate: Honeyed grain or cereal (probably from some of that nice honeycomb on the nose), brown sugar, butter, and vanilla extract.  Sweet but not overly so, and rather rich for such a young whisky.

Finish: Medium-length finish, medium-amount of burn accompanied by some campfire smoke?not so much that it really detracts from things, but enough that you sit up and notice the differences in it versus the palate.  A tad jarring in transition; it prevents this good dram from being scored higher.

Price: USD $60 at the nearest Total Wine.  I found a price of $44 from Wine Wise Greenwich, which, with shipping, comes out to $60.  Shipping can often significantly inflate the price of bang-for-buck whiskies, but I would be fine paying that for another bottle of this stuff.  It may fall just a tad short compared to the very best in its prince range, like the Aberlout 12 non-chill filtered or the Laphroaig Quarter Cask, but it?s still an entirely reasonable price tag for what you get, I think.

Overall: Really, the only negative was the finish, and it wasn?t so negative as to overshadow how ridiculously enjoyable every other aspect of this product is.  I saw after tasting it that it got quite a bit of praise in review blogs, and I have to say, I think that praise was well deserved.  87/100

Bruichladdich the Classic Laddie Scottish Barley, NAS, non-chill filtered, 50% ABV

So, I just reviewed the Laddie 10, and here?s my review of its bastard cousin replacement (wait, that sounds loaded?let?s just say I didn?t enjoy it anywhere near as much as the 10).  The Scottish Barley is extremely light?almost too light?and delicate, but passable just the same, even if I?m not sure yet what keeping a bottle of it would uniquely bring to my whisky cabinet, especially compared to the much more impressive 10 (but Laddie fans, please feel free to convince me).

Nose: Lots of honey, lavender, heather, and baking spice, like cinnamon.  Some floral notes beneath those, like I?m getting a whiff of a boutonniere with the requisite baby?s breath.  Very pleasant.

Body: Almost ghost-like in the mouth, quite wispy and difficult to maintain a presence with.  Very surprising?and disappointing?considering the 50% ABV, but by itself, not a dealbreaker.

Palate: Lots of straw and grain?unsurprising, I suppose, considering the prominent billing barley gets in the name?alongside similarly sweet notes from the nose, but this time in the form of salted caramel, pears, candied apples, the sassafras from root beer, and a dash of confectionary sugar.

Finish: A burn that bespeaks its probable youth and sadly really overshadows the palate flavors in its transition, dovetailing them quickly out of both taste and mind.  I had to giggle, after downing two drams for this review, going onto Bruichladdich?s website and seeing the finish being described as ?bring(ing) warmth to the heart and soul.  The clock slows down and the cares of tomorrow disappear into the dawn.?  LOL wat.  This is a fair whisky, not Jesus telling me to consider the lilies.

Price: USD $44 from Wine Wise Greenwich, ~$60 after shipping, so exactly the same as the 10. The sticker price of $44 is okay, I guess?it doesn?t measure up to the very best bang-for-buck whiskies like the Old Pulteney 12 or the actual Laddie 10, but it is in line with some other whiskies in its ballpark, like the Glen Grant 10.  But with taxes + shipping, $60 is too expensive for what you get.

Overall: A reasonable summertime whisky for sure, and as an entry-level scotch, a perfectly adequate bottle.  But it feels like it is only that?adequate?with no effort to be anything else.  An unworthy placeholder for the product it is standing in for, it tries more to be inoffensive rather than to be enjoyable, and I scored it accordingly.  81/100



I love comparative reviews like this! Good work. Btw when you said 

A burn that belies its probable youth 

I think you mean "bespeaks."



Bruichladdich Scottish Barley

$65, 50%abv

Ahh the replacement for the Laddie 10 (RIP) by the ?progressive hebridean distillers.?  Ugh marketing.  The bottle is really pretty though...

Nose: Fresh grain, Barley sugar, lemon candy, and dried apricot, water brings out stewed pears and epic vanilla custard.  The vanilla custard is really dominant after you pick it up.  There is a suggestion of peat for some reason, a nice woody musty character reveals itself every so often.   Pretty nice, but once you ?get it? it stops being interesting.

Palate: Slick mouthfeel especially with morsel sips.  Honey, slightly bitter appley oak, nilla wafers.  Sweeter and not as spirity as the Islay Barley and not as oak filled as the discontinued Laddie 10. 

Finish: Salty and fresh.  

83/100 Youngish? definitely blended, with care mind you, to keep both the sweet bourbon notes and maritime character nuanced.  I would like more of both.  Yadda yadda, local organic small business supporting quality craftsmanship from authentic peoples embracing terrior, difference, and quirky drunken behavior, yadda yadda.  Great concept, not exceptional whisky but we get the idea.  Still love Jim



Good guys Bruichladdich have given us a second chance at the discontinued 10 year age stated Laddie with the "Second Limited Edition" release. I still had some of the original 10 year left, so I thought it would be fun to compare the two releases. I had a sample of The Classic Laddie too that I received from u/taddraughn, so I threw that into the mix as well. While it is technically a NAS bottle, you can look up the vatting info on the Bruichladdich website and most bottles I've seen are made up of 7-10 year old Whisky. These are all NCF and NCA, and drank as is with no water added.

Full disclosure here, I'm a big Bruichladdich and Laddie fanboy. So if you're looking for an objective and impartial analysis of these bottles, look elsewhere!

Bruichladdich The Classic Laddie, Scottish Barley, 50%

Nose: Brown sugar, caramel, an oaky twang. Briny funk is there but a little more subdued than the age stated versions. Overall it really delivers in this department, this is a pleasure to nose.

Taste: Briny and sweet, this one is probably the saltiest and the sweetest of the three. Honey caramel, musty funk. This is more astringent and harsh than the others for sure, and the higher ABV seems to add heat instead of complexity

Finish: Bright caramel maltiness, but kind of watered down and anti-climactic compared to the others. Ends with that same friendly spice.

Overall: The original Laddie 10 has always been a favorite of mine, and I'm glad I had a bottle to compare to the new version. It's the friendlier of the two, it feels warm and fuzzy to me like home or a comforting embrace. It somehow has a strong kind of briny funk character and quite malty while still being velvety soft overall. Just wonderful. Sitting down to actually review it has helped me to really rediscover it, just as the bottle ran out :(  

The new Laddie 10 has done an excellent job at expanding and even improving on the Laddie character while keeping the "soul" in tact. It's much more elegant and complex, sharper and crisper. A little brighter, although I don't really think of these as bright. I wrote "stately and regal" in my notes, if that tells you anything. That bump up to 50% really helps with the more subtle and complex profile on this one. objectively speaking, this might be the better Whisky of the two, but the velvety malty funk of the original just strikes a chord with me.

The Classic Laddie, rather than being the inferior lesser of the three is more of a "wild card." It uses its youth to its advantage, being much brighter, sweeter, and more lively. That being said it can't really compete with the 10 year Laddies to me, but it's still a solid pour.

Score:

Laddie 10 (original) 8.5

Laddie 10 (2nd edition) 8

Laddie NAS 7

1 | Disgusting | So bad I poured it out.

2 | Poor | I wouldn't consume by choice.

3 | Bad | Multiple flaws.

4 | Sub-par | Not bad, but many things I'd rather have.

5 | Good | This is a good, solid daily.

6 | Very Good | A cut above.

7 | Great | Well above average.

8 | Excellent | Really quite exceptional.

9 | Incredible | An all time favorite.

10 | Insurpassable | No better exists.



Glad to hear you enjoyed it so much! The 2nd being the better of the two seems to be the consensus. You can really tell Bruichladdich went all out with the 2nd, they set out to make something special and they succeeded. 

You know I didn't directly note the wine/sherry influence on this, but that would make sense with the extra earthiness/nuttiness and dark fruit I got on it. Might be why I slightly prefer the old 10yr more too since It's a little more malt forward and I'm not as big on sherry/wine. 

In any case it's a beautiful bottle and I hope you nab some. They're even selling it for the same price as the old 10yr($50-$60 around here), which is cool of them.



Hello again Scotchit I?ve got another comparative review for you, this time I?ll be reviewing two Bruichladdichs: Bruichladdich Scottish Barley, the Classic laddie and Bruichladdich 19 year old 1992 Dimensions by Duncan Taylor.  

Bruichladdich Scottish Barley ? The Classic Laddie  

ABV: 50%  

Colour: yellow gold  

Nose: Fresh orange, caramel and honey, fill the nose to start with. Slowly the aromas of lemon zest and vanilla roll in all the while accompanied by plenty of barley.  

Palette: Barley straight at the forefront of the taste, this mellows out allowing apples, honey and vanilla to flourish, a weak lemon and oak note follows reluctantly.  

Finish: A little pepper and a fleeting glimpse of the orange from the nose along with some quiet apple make this a pleasant medium length and slightly warming finish.  

Conclusions: A very lovely light whisky, not very complex but it doesn?t need to be as it slips down a treat.  

84/100  

Bruichladdich Scottish Barley Classic Laddie

Islay, 50% ABV

Nose:  Caramel, honey, apples, cereal, meat, malt, smoke, vanilla

Palate: Malt, mint, apples, vanilla, honey, sea salt, oily

Finish: Warm, smoke, pepper, cereal, mint

87/100 Ahh finally. The one with the pretty blue bottle! I may have a slight affinity towards Islay but this hits the right spots.



