I'm not a big peat guy, but my favorite distillery happens to be an Islay one: Bunnahabhain. After loving several of their expressions, /u/dustlesswalnut told me to go out and buy a bottle of The Laddie Ten, being the Bruichladdich fanboy that he is. I took him up on it, and I'm glad I did. 

Bruichladdich The Laddie Ten

Strength: 46%

Color: Pale gold. 

Nose: The first whiff of this dram fresh out of the bottle always smells like puke. It's this funky weird and kind of unpleasant odor that you wouldn't want in a drink.

Weirdly, but fortunately, it goes away pretty quickly and is replaced with something much better. It has an ocean smell, saltier and more briny than Bunnahabhain. The sweet and fruity notes are very light and take a back seat. Totally unique nose that I suspect smells bad at first because everything is all muddled together, but given a little air the layers unfold and deconflict, producing a complex nose. 

Palate: Bunna-like sweetness, but complemented with soft peat and brine. This is hard to pick apart, but I like it. 

Finish: Salt and a pleasantly bitter aftertaste. 

Summary: What an odd whisky. It smells like ocean air and reminds me of being at the beach. It's the most enjoyable whisky I've had where I can detect peat, mostly because it's subtle. I might have to grab another bottle to hang onto before it starts to disappear from shelves. 

Score: 87/100 

Scotch Reviews #44

Whisky Reviews #80

@review_bot scotch 'Bunnahabhain'



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Bunnahabhain reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



but my favorite distillery happens to be an Islay one: Bunnahabhain

Hellll yeah. I'm just not a big Bruichladdich fan myself, though.



You know, Laddie 10 does make me imagine a young Bunna. Interesting.

I love this stuff. I bunkered six bottles last year at a great price, but I'm down to 2 or 3 at this point. I need to stock up again while it's still around.



Nice review, Rock. Reading your other Bunnahabhain reviews really makes me want to pick up a bottle. :)

Also, nice flair text you got there, haha. 



Is it Bunnahabhain or Bruichladdich? Make up your mind, lad, or cut down on the drinking :P

But seriously, I wish I could find a bottle of this...



Made with 100% Scottish Barley. Aged in American oak barrels for 10 years. Unpeated. 46% ABV. Un-Chill Filtered and Coloring Free.

Nose: Saltwater, earth, mushroom, a hint of peat (I know its unpeated so that's odd), strawberry, a bit of citrus

Palate: Nice viscosity, a bit of oilyness. Incredibly smooth and mouth coating. A very nice sweetness, powder sugar like. And the saltiness is still there just a bit.

Finish: Nice and warm and smooth. Goes on and on. A bit of citrus comes out, and a very subtle peaty smokiness as well.

Score: 90/100

Wonderful stuff. I've been on a Bruichladdich kick lately and when I saw this one at a liquor store I hadn't been to (about a month ago), I snapped it up quick. After trying it, I was so blown away. One of my favorite unpeated expressions and only $60 a bottle. I quickly went back and bought their last 3 bottles. This hits it out of the ballpark for me.



Bruichladdich The Laddie Ten

(10y, 46%, NCF, natural colour, 2001-2011, $68 CAD)

?

A vintage bottling distilled in 2001, this was the very first 10 year old whisky to be completely distilled, aged and bottled following Bruichladdich's resurrection in 2001.

?

Nose:  Straw, red apple, oak, lemon danish, malt, nuts, hint of earthy notes

Taste: Brine, nuts (cashew, peanut), oak, malt, honey, lemon custard, butter tart

Finish: Salt, honey, charred wood, roasted nuts

?

Those classic Laddie farmy notes hit right away. Buttery pastries, malt and citrus aren't far behind with nuts, oak and a maritime saltiness capping it off. Rich and creamy with strong, clean flavours. Tasty stuff. I?ve read that this is composed primarily of 1st fill American oak ex-bourbon casks in combination with a minor amount of sherry casks, but nothing reputable enough to officially relay this as fact.

For those of you who missed this the first time around, a new limited release of Laddie Ten is on the horizon (along with 10y versions of Port Charlotte and Octomore). Will have to see how it compares to this one, though I'm not sure they'll be the exact same.

Side note: first whiff of the fresh bottle held some strong Laddie funk. I can see where the "baby vomit" descriptors came from. There was that sour, lactic note that in older Laddies I've equated to sharp aged cheese. It disappears with time - at the time of this review a couple months later, I couldn't detect it anymore.

?

84/100



Thanks for the review. Oh man that Laddie funk is such an off putting note and I've come across it in multiple young expressions of theirs, but as you've said it does seem to thankfully dissipate over time once the bottle is open.

I was at a tasting with Jim McEwan back 2012 when the Laddie 10 had just been released out here, and I distinctly remember the rant he went on about whisky bloggers that say they get "baby vomit" in the Laddie 10, and how much he thought they were well off-side and had no idea what the hell they were talking about. Well, I put that glass of the 10 up to my nose, and boom an immediate and distinctive sour milk note hit me. I definitely kept my mouth shut.

What's interesting to me is that two of the two most off putting distillery characteristics that I've come across; Laddie's sour milk and Bowmore's FWP note, come out of production both when McEwan was at the helm. Whether he's directly responsible is questionable, but there it is.



Thanks for the comments and hilarious anecdote. I've definitely noticed the funk across multiple expressions in their range as well. Always in the unpeated stuff though, I can't recall it in the peated PC and Octomore bottlings.

Interesting observation on McEwan being at the helm during the prominent FWP era... I had forgotten about that.  



Visiting Bruichladdich was one of the absolute highlights of my trip to the UK last year. I've become such a dedicated fanboy of their line that I don't think I could even give an impartial review anymore.

Which is to say, nice review, even if I think your score's a bit low. :)



Thanks! Appreciate the note. Just in case it didn?t come across, I'm a fan of their stuff as well. I was hoping my enjoyment of this one would come through in the notes... it was good stuff. To me, a "good" whisky is a "B" grade (83-86) whisky, which loosely equates to something that I'd ideally purchase every now and again - but not a must have. Could easily have picked any number in that range.

Assigning an actual numerical score usually seems to be the hardest/most controversial part as everyone draws from their own experiences. Given that this isn't a cask strength, single cask, particularly complex whisky, it was a shot at what I thought fit. I have at least 12 other Laddies still to review, and expect many higher grades are still to be given ;)



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  Last week Rusty, who just turned 3 decades, came over for a tasting and he brought Bruichladdich The Laddie Ten 10 years old 92 proof for me to try.

better than "rocks" but nothing super special yet.  well, I guess it is special because of the Bruichladdich history and it's a decent dram with some nice spice to it, but it doesn't have that wow factor that I look for.  I'm glad I got to try it finally.  Recommended for those that want an unpeated Islay that is decent.

88/100



Rocks isn't terrible but it is for Scotch Newbies mostly.  If you like Laphroaig 10, you probably will be underwhelmed by the Rocks.  its sweet and buttery.  

Laddie 10 is something everyone should try, maybe just for history's sake.  Find it at a bar before thinking about purchasing a bottle.



Sweet leather soda? I'm constantly surprised at the descriptions that I find on r/scotch reviews. 

Is there a randomizer bot for these somewhere that I'm unfamiliar with? You know, like the Pirate Name Maker. 



Why do I read this review in ralfy's accent?  I mean, it just feels like a ralfy review, but typed.

*Note: I fucking love ralfy so this is a compliment.



I had a dram of this yesterday at a bar that has an epic scotch selection.. and I thought it was spectacular. Very balanced and drinkable for 46% abv. The only disappointment was that the taste seemed to fade rather quickly. 

Really spicy and pleasantly briny, not much of a peat kick for an Islay. I think it is tremendous for the price. Must pick up a bottle.

Best thing was ordering it.. the bar in question had about 10 different bruichladdich variations in stock, but the colour of the bottle makes for very easy recognizability. 



Bruichladdich 10

The Laddie 10

Islay, 46%

color: golden straw

nose: sea notes, malt, red licorice, lemon balm, sweet vanilla, shortbread, leather

taste: sea salt, sweet malt, spicy, toffee, lime, green tea, leather, hint of blood oranges

finish: lingers

Relatively mature and complex for such a young age. Refreshing, excellent whisky for its price.

87/100



The "landmark" 10 year old release, made entirely with whisky distilled since Mark Reynier's revival of the distillery in 2001. Unfortunately, they were bought by Remy-Cointreau a couple years ago, who, in their infinite wisdom, decided to discontinue this for a NAS version (bastards!). The label states this is an "Unpeated Islay Single Malt Scotch Whisky". As for my tasting notes:

46% abv. Non-chillfiltered, no caramel added

Nose - Very fruity - mango and oranges come to mind, with vanilla, honey, caramel, liquorice, and the ocean...maybe a whiff of smoke too? 

Palate - Surprisingly got some smoke, along with citrus, oranges especially, honey, creamy vanilla (lots), seawater, some peaches and mango in the background. 

Finish - Is lingering but not huge, cinnamony and fruity, with vanilla and a bit of clove and liquorice. 

This is incredibly flavorful and well put together for a 10 year old whisky, much more so than your average entry level single malt - I'm sure the lack of chill-filtration and 46% help, but the amped up vanilla, honey and fruit flavors also lead me to believe there are more first-fill casks in this. It's a crying shame this was discontinued, at least I have 3 more in my bunker though :)

89/100



Couldn't agree with you more. This is a whisky I'll miss (I only have one in my bunker). 

As a side note, I went to a Bruichladdich tasting last night hosted by a market manager for Remy (really nice guy by the way). I asked him about the discontinuation of the 10 yr and he said the Jim McEwan never intended to continue bottling 10 yr releases, or really any age statements for that matter. According to the market manager, Jim felt that conforming to standard (10 yr, 12 yr, 15 yr, etc) bottlings didn't necessarily give you the best whisky. Jim's whole thing is to release a whisky when it's ready, regardless of age. Granted this the Remy guy talking, and the decision to not do age statements is certainly driven by profit as well, but thought I'd share what I heard.



I went to one of those presentations and and the were all about the "OMFG an UNPEATED ISLAY WHISKY??!!!!"  yeah, chill out with that.

We all know the juice is good and that they're marketing the distillery as "traditionally rooted with hipster flair" but lets see what they do once this Core Range has taken foot.

Maybe then they can get back to real experimenting like the CS releases in the Port Charlotte portfolio or the Cuvees.  I asked about the future of the cuvees/similar and the question was dodged.  I would pay good money for a Single Cask Laddie.



Luckily this guy was a lot more chill and actually seemed to know about the product more than the people at most of these presentations (cough cough Macallan cough cough) "Traditionally rooted with hipster flair" describes Bruichladdich perfectly. 

Single Cask Laddie makes my mouth water



ahh the Laddie. Little bit of a story on how I acquired this beauty. I was dating a girl long distance (~3000kms) for a while and I thought it was really going somewhere. Around Christmastime, she came to visit for a week and after the visit, decided it wasn't going where I was hoping it would. so we broke up, but the problem was, both of us had bought Christmas presents for each other already. we decided to still give the presents and shipped them to each other. Much to my delight, she had actually paid attention a bit when i went on about my scotch preferences, and sent me this bottle. a fantastic whisky from a wonderful woman to whom I wish all the best. Enjoying this in my brand new Glencairn glass.. first time drinking from a proper glass! 

Appearance:  light straw, almost clear when held up to the light. Amazing legs on the glass. 

Nose: sweet fruity aromas, apple, floral notes, brine, sea air, spices. I never seem to smell the light peat that I know is there on the palate. Always a pleasant surprise again :D

Taste: light peat, sea water, iodine, apples, pears, light smoke, earthy flowers, woody spiciness

Finish: spice, smoke lingers. Burnt wood/peat, burnt rubber, fruity again in the long run. Lingers forever. 

Rating: 92/100

by far one of my favourites. The peat is present but no overpowering and it has so many layers of complexity underneath.   Added a few drops of water and the nose didn't really change but the palate was a lot spicier than before. Not only is this a delicious whisky, it also looks amazing. I love the modern bottle and tin. When this bottle is gone I will certainly be replacing it with another, or looking for the Laddie Sixteen!



The running consensus is that it was aged in casks which previously held peated whisky. I definitely get vegetal, oily notes from the nose but almost none from the palate and finish. 

Very delicious, though!



Hi everyone,

Another new one from Bruichladdich today, it?s the new 10yo. I tried the last version too and I?ll put my notes here for comparison but I did not directly compare these.

As with the Octomore OBA, I was a Birmingham whisky festival and the guys from Living Room Whisky let me try some of this one too. Thanks guys!

?

Bruichladdich 10 year old 46%

Colour: Light Gold

Body: Light/Medium

Nose: Light, fruity and floral. Waxy bourbon hints with vanilla and honey, toffee, Christmas cake hints and a faint wisp of wood smoke. Going more perfumed (Champhor, scented candle) and floral (Violets, heather and buttercups). Oaky tannins and some chocolate. 

Taste: A coastal arrival with lots of brine, going creamier, lots of sea salt and spray with a building heat. Drying oak tannins.

Finish: Medium length. Strong coffee hit then fading pepper and sea salt.

Discontinued because it was so popular. I prefer the new version, which fits with most of the Bruichladdich range really. Think I prefer Adam Hannett?s style of batches to Jim?s (Sorry Jim!).

72/100

?

Thanks for reading!

Reviews #311-#312



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/laddie10

Network Average: 74.5

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent

?

Full Disclosure Disclaimer: I currently work as a Brand Ambassador for Penderyn Distillery. The views expressed here are purely my own and do not reflect the views of Penderyn Distillery or The Welsh Whisky Company. I try to maintain as much objectivity as I can but feel free to take my reviews with as big a pinch of salt as you like. Furthermore, I have never accepted free samples from anyone in the whisky industry, but have bought bottles or samples with my money, bringing a different set of biases. Also, my rating scale is NOT based on a Parker type wine scoring scale or a school/college/university % or A-F grade score. I apologise for any seemly low or 'bad' scores given with my system and am sorry I can't say only nice things. Please keep in mind that I am ethically compromised and am unable to produce 100% unbiased reviews.



Discontinued because it was so popular. 

Ha!



Oh god I need something worth drinking now. If you've read my last reviews, you know that I've beat the living heck out of my tongue. And painfully limping forward, I went for a dram that I wanted to try so much I both swapped for it and bought a dram.

First off, thank you to /u/kinohead for the trade. This isn't the dram you traded me, however I am happy I have more.

So it's time to get into Bruichladdich, which isn't easy. You see, as opposed to other distilleries, today you'll have 12 different varieties to try, and tomorrow they'll launch 15 more and 15 more on the way. And they are all OB. They breed faster than rabbits humping tribbles. 

Mix into the price of the entry level dram in Canada, and boom, you're scared to even say the name. 

Bruichladdich also likes to buck trends. They only use Scottish barley, and keep each barely from each farm separate. Which would make you think they are hardcore into "Terroir", yet they aren't gigantic peat heads like the rest of the island.

Today I'll be finally trying they're "Entry" brand, the Bruichladdich 10 year old - The Laddie Ten. I put that in quotes as I've never been 100% that I'm correct. Also I've been drinking and still am a little jet lagged.

Region: Islay

Abv: 46%

Price: $62.95 (CAD)

Colour: Yellow gold

Nose: Peat, pear, medicine, lemon, sauerkraut, licorice, peach

Light smell, and you can tell it's from Islay due to the light peat. There's more fruit to it though, and it's sweeter than what I'm used to with Laphroaig or Lagavulin. I could see having this on a nice summer day, as the nose is refreshing.

Taste: Lemon, peat, manure, sweet licorice, pear, pepper, nutmeg, chocolate, tangy mandarin

Lot more of the same as the nose, with the spice and lemon/peat pairing nicely in there as well. I've said this before, however the "manure" taste isn't a bad thing, as it reminds you of being on a farm. It isn't so much biting into a turd, rather it's that memory that fires in your brain when you have it.

Also there's chocolate!

Finish: Fennel, salt air, grass, bacon, little grape

Long finish, though very simple. I wanted this to be more complex at the end, I wanted something weird to pop out and yell at me in Gaelic. Instead I had a simple tour of what I've had before.

Conclusion: There's promise in the nose. You feel like the nose is going to give you something more than a regular (though still great) Islay. And while the taste follows a little to close to the typical, it too has promise with more pear and a nice tang.

And then the finish pulls out early before you've even plateaued, unlike a gentleman. It was okay, yet I wanted just a little bit more. I'd still buy a bottle (not in Canada) given the chance, yet I'd warn against a low end.

80/100

Scotch review #74, Islay review #23



Good review!  It's a bit of a labyrinth of flavours.  I tend to let this breath (covered) for 30 minutes to 1 hr. before diving in.

Can't wait to get to some more of the trades you sent me.



Thanks to /u/muaddib99, /u/WDMC-905, /u/throzen for these swaps.

So the name Bruichladdich: Just some Gaelic, right? Well... not completely. And talking about the name helps with what we're reviewing today.

Bruichladdich is short for Brudhach a Chladdaich. And frankly, as someone who isn't always sober when he orders whisky, I'm quite glad it's shortened down.

So, two words there: Brudhach and chladdich. Brudhach means either the steepness of a hill or brae, to a precipice. So it's a cliff. Since Bruichladdich is on a steep bank, we have that.

Chladach means a stony beach. Or rather, a 'lee shore', a dangerous coast for sailing ships in a prevailing wind. Which describes Loch Indaal, located near Bruichladdich.

So in the end, this whole thing just is a warning that there's a cliff and there's a Lee Shore which you really should watch when you're sailing near it in a prevailing wind.

You know, that thing that comes up. Eventually the above words were said too quickly in a language that has a different origin root and isn't well known for being nice to the origin language, we end up with Bruichladdich.

Then you shorten it down, and we have "The Laddie". Which I guess means "shore". This line came out when the distillery restarted, being a celebration of restarting the company. There's no finish, and no peat. Also no colouring or chill filtration.

Side note: Apologies that I missed one of the age stated Laddies here, the 8 year. I honestly just found out about it.

So let's see how each of these taste, shall we?

Up first, we have the first edition of the Bruichladdich The Laddie 10. This is actually a re-review of this one. 

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Islay

Abv: 46%

Colour: 2.5Y 7/8

Nose: Pineapple, brine, white cake, brown sugar, light smoke

Tropical fruit and cakes. A classic, good flavour. For slave owners. Or rather just something I enjoy that may have been enjoyed by slave owners. I'm not assuming anyone who enjoys this has slaves.

Why did I make that joke? I swear, pineapple cake came out well after slavery was gone in the US. And probably not a thing during Roman times.

Back to the original point: The main things here are some salt, some pineapple, and some cake notes. And if you've ever had tropical cakes, you'll know that works nicely together.

Taste: Grapefruit, simple syrup, grassy, anise

Little more tart and "morning breakfast" than "tropical love" on the taste. Wait, that sounded racist too. God, my white guilt is going nuts today.

More herbal on the taste than I remember it. The acidity works here, though I wish it was that tropical over the grapefruit.

Finish: Earth, oak, peat, lemon

Simple finish, however that's in comparison to a 10 year old whisky that is punching above it's weight. Here there's some peat, though that could be heather, as I forgot to check using my hand.

Some lemon, some earth. Not loving it, though it's not rough.

Conclusion: A really nice nose, an okay taste, and a simple finish. Was more impressed by it last time I had this. Finish was more interesting last time. I stand by my original comments though, that the nose is the most impressive part, especially for a 10 year old malt.

Nice one to pick up. Especially if you like tropical cake.

77/100

Bruichladdich The Laddie 10 (2nd Edition) is up next. This is a limited release of The Laddie 10, as the original was discontinued and then brought back, as Bruichladdich didn't want to keep making the same thing over and over and feel that batches or editions should be limited.

So this is limited to 18,000 bottles. So limited is a nice term. It'll eventually run out, is what we're saying.

Also it's stronger than the first edition. So let's see how it compares.

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Islay

Abv: 50%

Colour: 2.5Y 7/8

Nose: Mango, guava, pear syrup, basil, earth

Tropical. More so than the last one. Less acid, more... of the other part of tropical fruit. I don't know how to explain that. Like... mango.

Here's the interesting thing with notes: I don't know how to explain parts of tropical fruits beyond acidity. But I'm trying to say there's less tartness of a Pineapple here. More pear notes. Nice earth, though not as developed as the first edition.

Taste: Brine, mushroom, lime pulp, sprity, oak

More earth forward this time. Any fruit that continues is light citrus. Not really sweet, though some nice spritiness on the tongue, and good oak here.

Finish: Orange, smoke, fennel, vanilla

Again, smoke at the end, but not as complex. That said, I prefer this finish. I felt the first edition petered out too quick, and didn't really jive too well. Here it's like Tiger Tail ice cream.

Conclusion: I enjoyed this one more, though I'll give that it's less complex. The nose is more inviting, though less developed. Taste has more mushroom/umami notes, and I have to say I like that, again, just a little bit more. Reminds me of a well made Manhattan. Oddly with bourbon as the main whiskey.

Then the finish feels more well put together. That said, this won't blow your mind. The original had a really well put together nose, and a unique combination of notes on the taste. So while I'd probably buy this one because I felt it worked better together, I still think the original was impressive in it's own right.

78/100

