Hello scotchit! Today i'm reviewing Bruichladdich Octomore 06.1 5 Year Old Scottich Barley. It's peated to 167 ppm (Phenols per million).On to the review. Slainte!  

Bruichladdich Octomore 06.1
57% ABV, NCF, NC, NAS, 30 ml sample       

Nose Big peat smoke, crisp charred oak, smoked bacon, curred meats, wood ash, smoked pork, slighty floral and fruity.
Less peat than i expected, more bread and meat. 

Palate Sweet peat, oak, smoked bacon, salty peanuts, pickled pear, charred bread.
It's a little lacking compare to the nose, but still very similar. Very little burn.

Finish Long lingering sweet peat, charred bread, drying oak.
The drying oak note feels a little off. Otherwise good.

This is very interesting whisky! I don't really feel the peat quite as much as i expected. It feels more meaty than peaty. I think it would be nice step up, if i tried one of the .2 finishes, at least that's what i hope. Overall, not your everyday dram, but it's great if you're in the mood for something peaty and different. Great novelty bottle.  

Overall, 83/100  

Buy again? No.

Most similar too:
Laphroaig Quarter Cask
Ardbeg Uigeadail



Bruichladdich Octomore 6.1 57%

First ever try of the Octomore series. Why is it called that?? Anyway, expecting to have my head blown off. 

Noses: Smoke. Rich malt. Oranges and Lemons. Something that resembles cheap brandy (in a good way). Cliff rocks. Herbs. Toffee. Honey, almonds and clotted cream. 

Palate: Warm and well-oiled mouthfeel. Peat. Brine. Slight Marmite. Lots of malt. Oranges. Toffee. A creamy honey comes through later. Dark chocolate.

Finish: Strong in the mouth. Warmth throughout, bypasses the throat and goes straight to the chest. Campfire remains for a very long time.

Comments: Having read a few reviews it seems almost a clich? to say ?not as peaty as I expected?, but? it?s not as peaty as I expected. Not at all a one-note whisky, the peat is well woven with citrus and sweet notes. Unbelievably complex for its age, and not nearly as harsh as many younger whiskies out there. I?d say that a beginner or a speyside fiend would find the Laphroaig 10 more abrasive than this. If I had the cash I?d love to try the Comus, could really see how the wine finish would work with this. I actually preferred this to lagavuiln. 91 



ROUND TWO - Session Four - a more or less Sherry Bomb selection

I just read through all of your posts and damn, you killed it! I've been posting reviews for about a year and a half and I only just got to scotch review #75 today. 

Nicely done!



How long of a time period does this series represent?

*edit: found the answer, I apologize. 



No racing!  It's quality, not quantity.  Please drink responsibly.  4-5 (3 teaspoon) samples in a night (2pm - 9pm) feels more appropriate to me.  The closer I got to 9 the more I got headaches, hiccups and heartburn.  I don't recommend it.

The only reason we went through these so quickly is because he was moving away.  A last hurrah, as it were.  



Octomore 06.1 / 57% ABV

Tasted with a splash of water

The latest in Bruichladdich's nasty super-peated offering is 5 years old, 167 ppm of peat, and deliciously Hebridian.

This stuff is just pure sex.

Rating: 93/100

95th review



This is: Bruichladdich Octomore. Agent 6.1 to be specific. That means this is the 6th edition (right?) and the ".1" means it is bourbon barrel aged (right, guys?) I'm not the huge Laddie fan that everyone else seems to be, but I can respect their commitment to craft. Oh and stunts, like making the peatiest whisky ever. That's what this was at 167ppm, but I believe they've beat their own record.  

57%abv  

Color: Sienna.  

Nose: medical... peat and Chigarid.  

Taste: hellfire... mint antiseptic mouthwash.  

Finish: petrol-peat... sour diesel and tangy peat-extract boiled in a reductive pan. Brine and dill are there too.  

Conclusions: Hot as all get-out with a long Islay-nuke finish. Unfortunately it is just too damn painful to drink. So! let's add A LOT OF WATER... 

Taste w/ water: spicy-sour... pickled peppers, peppermint, lemon, chili, and some light malt too.  

Finish w/ water: traditional Islay... sour and tangy with dill, brine, char, lime, and wet-wood smoke. Not nearly as long, and somehow too dry now?  

Second Conclusions: Could I have the neat finish with the watered mouthfeel? Nope? Too bad. I find myself forced to say that this is for Islay completists only. Octomore reminds me of some of those notorious Ardbegs I've tried. 83/100



Yep, you're right about the 6.1 being sixth release and bourbon aged.

Nice review.



Quick question. First pour?

If so have another or three. Then wait a week or 4 and sample again.

I found it to be much more approachable after it had been cracked and displaced.



Thanks to /u/oliviervdv for the sample. Full disclosure first: I am not much of a peat head. However, I have had a good half dozen Islay single malts, so I have a bit of experience under my belt. To me, tasting everything, even whiskies you might not prefer, is all part of the education. Now, to my notes.

Appearance: Amber -1

Nose: Bonfire in a glass, an assault on the senses. Water tempers it a bit, and brings out more vegital peat, damp grass, touch of lingering honey in the background.

Taste: This whisky tastes like it was filtered through the embers of a bonfire, and then body blended by an angry Balrog. Oily and full on the palate. My tounge is abuzz with the peat and spicyness. Lingering in the background is a hint of vanilla sweetness. With water, becomes much more sweet and rich, barley sugar and honey.

Finish: Peat that lasts and lasts.

Score: 86/100

There is definitely some complexity here. Once the water cuts through the peat, there is a nice malty sweetness in the background. Definitely near or at the top of what I've had from Islay.



Submission added to database (but not yet archived in the official Whisky Review Archive, please do so manually).

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Bruichladdich Octomore  6.1

Thanks to /u/muaddib99 for the in-person swap.

Colour: Lemon gold.

Nose: Heather, lemon, mint, pine, licorice allsorts, bubble gum, sweet fruity white wine, smoke, peat, cola, burning rubber.

Palate: Alcohol heat, blackpepper corns, molasses, simple syrup, apples, citrus rind, cigar ash, iodine, tar.

Finish: Citrus, brown sugar, salt, peat and smoke, herbal cough syrup.

Intense and magical.  Surprisingly complex.  Lots of intriguing notes that stand out despite the strong peat and smoke.  There's a dryness and bitterness that doesn't hurt.  The youth does show, detrimentally so, but perhaps provides some of the intensity, complexity, and contrasting flavours.  

Doesn't need much water, if any, despite being 57% abv.

Really good.

89/100

Other Bruichladdich reviews:

Bruichladdich Rocks - 82/100

Bruichladdich The Laddie Ten - 86/100

Bruichladdich 13 Cask Strength - 87/100

Bruichladdich 18 Year Old Second Edition - 86/100



i poured a dram of bruichladdich manzanilla for a friend that was over on Saturday.  

as soon as he tried it, he said "oh my goodness, there is so much smoke here!"

He isn't some scotch expert, but he works at a liquor store and talks about scotch tastings by distributors, plus has had a ton while hanging with me and another one of my friends.

hrmmmmmmmm



I absolutely butchered this in a blind review before, so I?m re-reviewing it now. 

Distilled/Owned by: Bruichladdich

Region: Islay

57% ABV

Mashbill: 100% malted barley

PPM: 167

Aged For: 5 years

Cask Type: Ex-bourbon cask

Chill Filtered: No

Color Added: No

Color: Amber

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn.

Nose: Strong costal peat, citrus, ginger, salmon sushi, salted pork, yeasty barley, slight vanilla

Mouthfeel:  Bright, youthful, strong, and Oily

Palate/Taste: Vanilla, punch of peat, smoke, citrus, tar, brown sugar, smoked brisket.

Finish: Warm and lasting, smoke with brine and dirt. Citrus and ginger.

Thoughts: My palate this time was more on par with what I assume is correct for the spirit. A real peat monster.

Score: 85/100



Octomore 6.1 ? 57%, $140 

Nose: Sweet, strong earthy peat, light brine. 

Taste: Intense dirt, earth, light smoke, brine, sweet sugared malt. Medium to full mouthfeel. 

Finish: The sweet sugar malt stays behind a cloud of dust. Medium length.  

Notes: This is indeed a peat bomb where the notes follow though from the nose to the finish. It?s good but for the price I would expect a little more going on. I prefered the 6.2 much more.  

86/100



wtf does the title mean and/or why is this review of such poor quality??!?  This is a semi-blind review - all notes composed blind, with post-reveal commentary in italics

Initial Impressions: Iodine. I really don't have the mental capacity to do this right now.  I'd just taken a tiny sip of a WHEATER (Larceny) and jumped immediately to this w/o cleansing the palate.  The Iodine and malt really stood out strongly.

Nose: earthy iodine. I expected but am not really finding peat. Maybe a little bit - not sure. Young to middle aged wood - like a sheet of quarter inch hardwood plywood. Peat coming out more now that it's had time in the glass - the softer kind of peat one finds in Laphroaig 18

Taste: generic malt with hints that the next turn will be to the sweet side. But it doesn't, turning instead to an acidic alcohol burn, peat in the background. Oak, Iodine, earth and vanilla can be detected.

Finish: the peat rises through the citric burn to become aftertaste. There's some wood influence and earthiness here too.

I think my palate is ok today, I've not had any weird food. That citric acid bit detracts from what otherwise would be an enjoyable peated scotch.  Smaller sips help with but don't fully resolve the problem.

Score: 87/100

Would I buy it again? Probably.  Not because I like it so, but because it's Octomore.  I'm ashamed.

I received this sample from /u/kurt_vonnegunt a long time ago.  Thank you!
