Bruichladdich Port Charlotte Scottish Barley; 50% ABV

?

Price: $55 ($11 at a bar near me)

?

Tonight's review is the "heavily peated" Port Charlotte - Scottish Barley. I've been drinking Uigeadail, Corryvreckan, and Laphroaig QC, and wanted to try one of Bruichladdich's offerings.

?

Color: Light gold.

?

Nose: Salt and brine, with just a hint of peat (ironic, considering "heavily peated" is in the name). Oak and other wood, with hints of meatiness.

?

Palate: Burning wood. The peat really kicks in here. I taste a lot of medicinal flavors overlapped by wood and brine. 

?

Finish: Smokiness fades with a light burn, and the meatiness I mentioned earlier comes back slightly. Salt and oak once more. Quick finish; doesn't linger.

?

Lacks the complexity of Talisker DE or Laphroaig QC. Granted, it is a bit cheaper where I live. Still, a very nice "campfire" dram, and it's at 50%. The meat flavors are also a very nice touch.

?

Rating: 82/100



Short rant that you might skip if you are here for just the review.

?

I haven?t posted a review in some time. It isn?t because I gave up scotch. Far from it. I basically was bored with my review process. I would sit with iPad in lap and a keyboard and type away while dramming. I didn?t really like the intrusion of the device in my time with the malt. I was given a freebie journal from a Balvenie event and decided to start using that. I liked the return to the analog. 

Now an even more esoteric rant. For a lot of reasons i find that the democratization of photography has had as much adverse affect on the medium as it has positive. I have spent a lot of time under a viewing hood. I have spent hours weighing, measuring and fiddling with chemistry combinations for film and paper. I love to see with a lens. But I can?t really see getting out a view camera, reflector or lights to shoot my drams. 

So the things I liked about ditching digital for my notes and my ambivalence towards the photography of the review made me think about my waning studio habits. I saw an opportunity. I could do analog images. I have now finally done one. I?m going to try and bang out at least one a week. It?ll get faster and more frequent I?m sure. I didn?t take a lot of time with this but wanted to get the first one out of the way. I really see it as a way to do something that is just for me. Like reviews. They are mostly for me. I am happy to hear anyone?s feedback on these. Please tell me what you love or hate. I?m sure they?ll change a lot. 

?

Now the dram. It an offering from Bruichladdich. You?ve likely had it. This was during New Year?s at my folks house. My dad loves the stuff. He had a bottle. We had it a few times and talked about it while I took notes. Results below.

?

ABV: 50%

Price: $60

Conditions: Neat, glencairn

Colour: See drawing

Nose: Mint, heather, vegetal peat, salty sea air, smoked ham and lemon

Weight/Body: Medium. The most medium medium I could think of. Coats the palate.

Palate: Entry is sweet. Peat up front then the sweet raw sugar from the entry returns. Transition is where the peat really hits as well as light anise. Salty sea spray from the bouquet comes out occasionally. The palate is really a nice repeat of the nose with some herbal additions, notably the anise. 

Finish: Pepper, mint, boggy peat water

Conclusion: Like it. Solid peaty dram. Won't replace Caol Ila for a daily drinker for me but wouldn't pass it up.

Score: 84/100



Glad you're back!

I basically was bored with my review process. I would sit with iPad in lap and a keyboard and type away while dramming. I didn?t really like the intrusion of the device in my time with the malt.

The very same thing happened to me, before I changed I was sitting on my desk, dram at hand and typing away at my computer. That took away so much from what whiskey stands for and it almost felt like work! Ugh!
I'm very happy that I want back to analog, read as my little black book and a pen. And I also changed the whole "set-up", even though I sometimes drink/review at my desk after I finished the days work, I try to make myself as comfortable as possible, so I try to get to a cosy place and put some music on and relax with the dram and then put some notes into the book. The downsite, if you want to call it such, is that I'm about ten reviews "late", meaning I have em in my book, but are too lazy to type then out and post them. On the other hand, that saves people from having to read my rejected writings ;P   

Cheers, here's to enjoy whisky!



Bruichladdich Port Charlotte

$55, 50%abv

Another Laddie for you folks.  

Nose: A Balanced peat attack, iodine, flowery campfire, sweet smoked marshmallows, Vegetation and moss.  Lemon peel and malty fruitier notes appear after some water.  This is by no means a peat monster.  It?s quite an accomplishment to get such a balanced nose that doesn?t dissipate.  

Palate: Biscuity, fresh smoke, initially dry pine, raspberry sherbet, yet all easy going.  4 drops water reveals sweet melon notes and subtle ketchup bbq sauce.  I really was expecting salty seaweed? The tempered peat with quality spirit lead to interesting spice notes that I could not identify.  Definitely some sherry casks at work.  Very solid.

Finish: Sugar, charcoal, leathery.  Great finish, that sweet sweet porky leather. 

85/100 A nuanced entry level Islay.  I really want to compare this to the An Turas Mor, but the nose was just not as captivating.



I really enjoy Bruichladdich spirit and this is well balanced in terms of peat and fruit.  They are not trying to beat you with their whisky, and peat is not the star so don't expect IODINE WET DOG GASOLINE

I would buy, but An turas Mor is better if you can find it.



This sounds pretty good :)

If the price the is right, I'll probably grab a bottle.



Bruichladdich Scotch Barley Port Charlotte (50% ABV)

/r/scotch review 6

Thanks /u/t8ke for the sample (this was part of a mistaken set of samples sent on his part, which I benefited greatly from when he sent me the correct ones and had me keep these. I'm grateful for his generosity.

Color: Gold...not as pale as some, but not amber either

Nose: Smoky peat, rubber, warm malt, a little heather, vanilla, light fruit underneath when I dig a bit

Taste: initial sweetness, followed by a blast of rubbery smoke, honey, heather, vanilla, slight meatiness (very slight compared to funky peatbombs like Laphroaig), a little light fruit (pear?) at the end...warm and tingly

Finish: Sweet and smoky, fading into just smoky and numbing heat. There's a bit of vanilla there, a little pepper and clove (but maybe that's just the proof talking)

Rating: 90/100 

This is a great smoky dram. The peat isn't nearly as funky or meaty as something like Laphroaig, but it's delicious and has some delicate flavors when you dig on past the smoke. Bruichladdich makes great peated malts.



Bruichladdich makes great peated malts.

Don't let anyone around here hear you say that. I got my castle's gate stormed for saying that Bruichladdich makes peated malts. Apparently the fact that the distillery is called Bruichladdich is irrelevant.



I'm still learning about Scotch, so if I need to be corrected, it won't hurt my feelings.

I assumed Port Charlotte and Octomore were malted by them.



Bruichladdich is typically unpeated and they refer to their peated stuff as other brands. A few other distilleries do this, namely Springbank, Tobermory, and I think Edradour.

Port Charlotte is even matured in a different warehouse than Bruichladdich, IIRC there was an actual distillery called Port Charlotte there.



Whiskey Network Review #49  r/Scotch Review #26

Price: $69

Appearance: Old gold

Nose: Peat, peaches, floral, sea air, blue cheese, tobacco, hay

Taste: Smoke and a bit of iodine, masking tape, brine, peaches, apricot, strawberry, tobacco, lemon

Finish: Long finish. Brine up front with the smoke building the longer you wait with some nice fruit at the back end.

Conclusion: Yes its peaty, they make a big deal about how heavily peated it is in the marketing but its not as in your face as you expect, but my tolerance to peat is probably pretty high. A bit medicinal (not too much)  but surprisingly fruity, I get a lot of stone fruit and some berry behind the peat which makes it come off a lot more refreshing and lighter. I like peat but I crave it most in the winter, I would call this a good summer time peated whisky but really I would drink it year round. I paired this with some homemade summer sausage and fancy cheeses and it all went together quite nicely.

Rating: A

A+:  Perfection, how do I replace my blood with this! (95-100/100)

A: Damn good, would love to always keep a bottle of this laying around at all times if I could afford to. (90-95/100)

B: I like it, would buy the occasional bottle, or order the occasional glass, but there are others I prefer more. (80-89/100)

C: Unremarkable but drinkable, right in the middle of the bell curve. (70-79/100)

D: Mixer, I don?t want to drink it straight up. (60-69/100)

F: Nope, nope, nope (59-0/100)



Scotch Review 40: Mystery sample from a mystery person

I usually don't pay much attention to color but since I am trying to guess what this is, I'll note that it is pale straw-y gold.

Nose: Peat, earth, ham (haha thought I got a mayo note for a second, but maybe it's a ham scent making me associate it with a sandwich). The smell of a dusty old attic. Maybe dry riesling?

Taste: Big, billowy, earthy peat surrounds the mouth, with a touch of bourbony sweetness stabbing through. Caramel, vanilla, honey, that sort of thing. Some lemon

Finish: Satisfyingly long and steady. This is not a dram that evolves dramatically, it just does the strong peat thing and keeps doing it. Saltwater taffy, charcoal, some bittersweet maltiness as it fades.

87/100 This is a good straightforward peated whisky. At first I believed it to be a young but refined ex-bourbon cask Islay since I didn't get much red fruit on the palate, but this slight mustiness on the nose and finish makes me wonder if a bit of sherry influence is happening. God I'm bad at this. I was thinking it might be a Kilchoman of some kind (although I haven't tried too many of their expressions). There's also something about it that reminds me of Lagavulin 12, but to hazard a single guess, let's say Kilchoman Machir Bay.  



Port Charlotte Scottish Barley                     

Price: approx. $55
ABV: 50%
Details:

Nose: Smoked pork, salinity, charred wood, smoked paprika, sweet cream, vanilla, peat, coconut, fresh lemon. Great depth and well balanced.
Taste: Lemon bars, pepper, meaty umami, smoke, peat, vanilla, malted barley comes through, salt, faint oak. On the sweeter side of peated whiskies I have tasted.
Finish: Bitter cocoa, citrus, pepper, smoke. Mid-length, could be a little more assertive.

Conclusion: I?m a sucker for salty peat and smoke, so I enjoyed this. The meat notes are also pretty pronounced which is something I haven?t experienced in anything other than Uigeadail. The sweet lemon was also awesome. 

This whisky has one of the better noses that I have ever encountered with an almost endless amount of depth and a nice balance between sweet, savory, and smoky. Unfortunately this does go downhill from there; the palate isn?t quite as good as the nose and the finish isn?t quite as good as the palate. 

While this probably does contain some younger whisky, they employ two techniques that can nearly eliminate any negative notes typically found in young whisky: 1. bottling at a high ABV and 2. peat. The fact that they do not chill filter is also helpful in regards to covering up a young whisky?s faults.

The palate and finish aren?t tremendous, but that isn?t a deal breaker for me. I would recommend this to all of my fellow peat lovers that may be looking for a change of pace from the usual suspects (e.g., Laphroaig, Ardbeg, Lagavulin).
Overall: 85 

Note: Scores are based on the quality of the whiskey. Price/value is not included in the score.



Port Charlotte Scottish Barley 50%

Concludes a little spree of Bruichladdich Reviews 

Nose: BBQ beef and pork, peat, sultanas, salted caramel, smoked paprika, peat tart, melons, lapsang souchong. Rosemary. Very spicy and intriguing. More fruity and woody with time. 

Palate: mostly smoke with a peaty edge. Heavy malt and barley. Some flint. Ash. Coffee. Tobacco. Chocolate fondant. Spiced pear and vanilla. Pinewood. 

Finish: coffee. liquorice. Smoked chocolate. Less campfire and more BBQ.   Very herbaceous. 

Comments: This is a lot of fun, lots of smoked fruits, herbs and spices. Exuberant and youthful. Barley notes are strong. More delicious the longer you drink. 91 

Bruichladdich now my favourite distillery.



PC7 is bottled at cast strength so it's a bigger whisky and has more salt and fruit.  A right hook as opposed to a left jab.

The Islay Barley expressions are all unpeated (and now replace the laddie 10 as entry bottlings) so it's of a different character.  My thoughts on the 2006



Islay, 50%, NAS. NCF and I?m guessing NCA as well. Rested 10 minutes in a glencairn.

Sample provided by u/aglarattercop.

Ah, Bruichladdich. Can?t say I?m a huge fan. I didn?t care for the Laddie 10, and while I?ve liked the couple of Octomores I?ve tried, I don?t think they?re worth the price. This is my first try at their peated line that?s not an Octomore. 

Nose: Heavy peat at first sniff, but also quite malty. There?s a musty sweetness that makes me think this has been in a sherry cask at some point. Leather.

Palate: Not the smoke bomb I expected. Moderate smoke, like smoldering leaves, and seaweed. Definite tinge of fruity sweetness. Smoky caramel and charred citrus. The malt is not as prominent here. Toasted nuts. 

Finish: Keeps on going like the Energizer bunny. Again smoldering vegetation balanced with caramel and a hint of citrus. Leather. Not much oak, which is not surprising because it?s probably on the young side. Very nice. 

Conclusion: All right, they?re onto something here. Doesn?t have the barbecue notes I?ve gotten from the Octomores I?ve had. A sweeter kind of peat, with just a little savory flavor. Reminds me some of Uigeadail, if not as complex. Really nice dram for fall. I will say that someone in marketing really needs to tone it down. According to their website, the finish ?brings courage and strength, honesty and faith to your very soul.? I?ve nearly finished the glass and I?m still a cowardly, weak nonbeliever. 

Buy a bottle? Right about $60. A few bucks more than Ledaig 10 or Laphroaig QC, but worth it to me. I do need to tone down the buying but may well be my next peated purchase. 

85/100



This was my first review. Wasn't my favorite, but I also kind of liked it. 

Tasted like a salty fishing village. It was fantastic with a cigar.



Just started seeing this around, was able to get a sample from /u/artvandalay381 before I committed to buying. As always, bonus points for being able to say ?Bruichladdich? to myself as I drink, very fun

Nose: Flinty, perfumed peat, the poppy seed filling from hamantaschen. B+/B

Palate: Almond butter, more perfumed peat, somewhat dry. B

Finish: Mild peat sticks around, it?s an ok finish B/B-

Sum Up: This is a very solid whisky, I like that it tends to dryness. Very much in line with the An Turas Mor, but a bit less vibrant. More mature but possibly less complex. I like this & may buy one, it?s a good bottle of Islay. 85/100