I've decided to re-review this one because I wasn't very nice to it in the community review (I wasn't feeling well iirc). It has since become one of my favourite everyday drams.

Bunnahabhain 12, 46.3% ABV

Nose: Sweet, earthy and briny. Winter truffles. Salted caramel, cocoa and sultanas. Marmalade on yeasty bread. Walnuts and burnt brown sugar. Freshly struck matches. Musty wet oak. Leathery and lightly smoky. Faint compost in the background. 

Taste: Medium bodied and buttery smooth. Creamy malt. Roasted nuts and mushrooms. Sweet brandy. Ripe grapefruit. Sea salt, cardamom and vanilla beans. Oak char. Rich dark chocolate and bitter tea leaves going into the finish.

Finish: Black liquorice. Salted toffee. Earthy and leathery. More mushrooms. Faint rubbery bitterness. Medium and pleasant.

Nicely balanced with a bit of everything ? sherry sweetness and coastal brininess with some acidity and earthiness. I get a lot of mushroom/fungus notes in this but I kinda like it.

A well-rounded nonpeated Islay (some people get peat in this but I don't get any).

87/100



This truly is one that you have to let grow on you.  I hated it the first time, and actually thought it had gone bad, but loved it ever since then.

I also get some mushroomy notes, but I liken it more to walnut skin.



So we had a weird experience with this Scotch and Glenlivet.

If you drink Bunnahabhain right after drinking Glenlivent, the previously sweet nose turns into straight bad Cognac.

Try it, it's crazy (and a bit terrible).



Natural color and unchill-filtered . Bottled at 46.3% ABV.

Nose: Instant charred meat.  Followed by sea spray and seaweed.  Very unique and interesting.

Palate: Rich and round in the mouth.  Very creamy mouthfeel.  Toffee and nuts.  More salty seaweed.  Earthy.  A bit of nuttiness.  A bit of the charred meat left but not as much as what was on the nose.

Finish: Medium to long finish.  So smooth!  Saltwater and subtle peat smoke.  

Score: 89/100

This surprised me with how good it is.  Entirely unique and interesting, yet eminently drinkable.  I really dig this and need to pick up a bottle now after trying it.  I seem to always love unpeated Islay's.



Bunnahabhain 12

(46.3%, NCF)

?

Thanks to u/Cowtown12 for this sample!

?

Nose: Earth, caramel, apple, honey, orange, nuts, coastal notes

Taste: Earth, hazelnut, apple, honey, orange peel, coffee, brine

Finish: Coffee w/ cream, salt, black pepper, malt

?

Quite a bit going on in the nose? there are earthy, sweet, fruity, nutty and coastal elements that kind of hit all at once. A lot of the same elements in the taste, earthy and nutty with hints of salty maritime notes. Creamy texture, the sherried fruit is still there but the collective is leaning more towards bitter and salty than sweet now. Stays creamy in the finish, blending nicely with a roasted coffee note along with a bit of a lingering peppery feel.

Have you ever heard the one about the Bunnahabhain 12? TL;DR it doesn't suck. Just a fun multi-layered experience with quite a bit of character. It won?t knock your socks off, but it?s full flavoured with contrasting yet complementary notes that make this a rather noteworthy for a standard entry level age stated bottling. 

?

85/100



I'd recommend grabbing a bottle.

If this was a Macallan, it'd be $90 USD...



Bunnahabhain 12 year old 92.6 proof

the more I drink it, the more I love how delicious it is. I was used to smack-in-the-face Laphroaig when I tried it, so i was underwhelmed at first. I love Lahproaig but Bunnahabhain now has this quality about it where you can sip it after dinner with a nice cigar or pipe and just savor the sweetness of it. i liken it to Lagavulin or Talisker's Distillers Editions. 

92/100



Bunnahabhain 12

Islay, 40%

color: golden amber

nose: floral, sea salt, walnuts, hint of vanilla, vinegar, only a little smoke

taste: peat, slightly medicinal, sweet malt, sea salt, sherry

finish: long, full, refreshing, sweet

Not as heavy as Laphroaig or similar Islays. Very rich. Would definitely buy again.

91/100



I always sort of browsed over this, if I wanted Islay I was out for peat and if I didn't want peat I wasn't really out for Islays. I went into my favourite bottle store looking for something else (Nikka Whisy from the barrel), they were out of stock and the guy said I should give this a roll. 

Nose: Was a bit strong right away, left it to sit for about 10min. Caramelised biscuits. Floral. Black Cherries. Molasses. Maple Syrup. Raisins. Sea Spray. Maybe just a tiny little hint of peat lurking in a dark corner at the back.

Palate: Spicy charred woods, cinnamon & oak. Christmas Pudding. Sherry, maybe even a good brandy. Almonds. Brine. Don't usually comment on mouthfeel but this really warms up the whole mouth.

Finish: This really blew me away here, a really deep long sherry finish. Bit of that cough syrup that tasted really good when i was a kid, really sits in the lungs and warms you up. 

Rating: 88/100

I was really happy that I gave this one a chance. It's a very interesting combination of sherry and coastal Islay malt (minus the peat, so that good salty briny goodness). This is a delicious dram to enjoy late on a cold stormy night. It's price means I'll definitely be keeping this one stocked on my whisky shelf. 



Good review. 

I just picked up a bottle this weekend as well. Malty Islay for sure. 

The price is fantastic (Can be found under $50), especially considering they are still family owned and operated. 



Bunnahabhain is one of 8 Islay distilleries. They aren?t known for the big smoky monsters like Laphroaig and Ardbeg are, though they?ve started to release a lot of peated, though unfortunately NAS, expressions lately. It?s also the primary malt whisky component of Black Bottle, which recently got a (less peaty) re-branding. Hmmm?

46.3% abv. Non chill filtered, 12 years old.

Nose - Lots of vanilla, raw ginger, black pepper, honey, a hint of smoke, and a Laddie-like salinity as well. Quite sweet smelling - reminds me a lot of a Signatory bottling I have from them that?s first fill sherry...not Oloroso or PX, some drier variety or maybe cream sherry.

Palate - Lots of vanilla again, rather sweet, but with some balancing spicy/dry elements. Cream soda, vanilla, honey, with the raw ginger, black pepper, some lemon, and briny notes from the nose making their presence felt as it develops. Doesn?t feel heavy, but is somewhat thick.

Finish - Ginger and black pepper are most prominent, while the honey/vanilla/ginger/lemon notes provide balance and depth. Light smoke is here as well. Spice notes last the longest.

This is a very solid, though unspectacular, entry level single malt from Bunnahabhain. There are some nicely balanced sweet and spicy notes, with considerably more character than the Glenfiddichs and Glenlivets of the world - to me, it would be a solid next step for someone looking for a Scotch with a bit more character than those.

86/100



I recently got back from a few weeks in Europe including a week in Scotland, and managed to visit Edinburgh, Glasgow, Arran and Islay. This post covers some samples/drams consumed in Edinburgh and Glasgow, as well as a few other pictures taken while in the cities. 

First up, Bunna 12. At the mash tun in Edinburgh. Football game on, crowd a rocking. Decided to grab this since I'd never had it before and wouldn't be able to make it to Bunna while on Islay.

Bunnahabhain 12 - 46.3% ABV

Appearance: Standard colour, e150. Sadly served in a tumbler.

Nose: Honey sweetness, malty and nutty, caramel, pistachio. Salty.

Palate: Very malty and sweet. Tastes a bit like a Speyside but with a salty sea air element to it. Pears, apricots, nuts.

Finish: Long warm and salty

Score: 82/100

Overall: not bad, not great. I expected a bit more out of it. 

At The Whisky Shop beside the royal mile. They have a ton of minis and some quarter casks of whisky ageing in house. They buy full casks from distilleries and then split them between their various locations for re-ageing. We got a sample of their newest cask, a 14 year Glenfarclas that was so new, they didn't even have it priced yet. notes are sparse as they were recorded on the fly.




Hi again r/scotch,

I love Islay but don?t really love Bunna.

I?ve said before that Bunna isn?t my favourite distillery. It?s probably my least favourite Islay. I find a biting harshness in just about any bottling, maybe it?s just not for me. I guess it saves it for the people who enjoy it anyway and I know a lot of people do. 

Today we?ve got an indie and two officials, let?s go by age.

?

Bunnahabhain 12 year old 46.3%

Colour: Amber

Body: Full

Nose: Some heat initially but quickly develops into lots of dried fruit and spice. Sherry evident with Brandy soaked raisins, dates, plums, cocktail cherries, sweet and syrupy, a small wisp of wood smoke. Creamy malt, some honey and vanilla. Rough heat showing up sometimes.

Water: Very creamy and smooth with banana, baked apple and pear but less syrupy Brandy. More spicy malt. After some time- Clove, mint, roasted chestnuts and soft biscuit.

Taste: Very sweet and sherried. Loads of dried fruit, baked apple and pear, dates, banana and cherry all soaked in loads of sweet Brandy, Sherry and Rum. Lots of cocktail cherries too, mild nuttiness. Some spice developing- ginger but a little rough heat sometimes.

Water: Dried fruit soaked in Brandy replaced by nutty maltiness. A lot more spice, some of it a bit rough, spicy malt, more nuts and chocolate malt.

Finish: Short length. Cocktail cherries and a bit of spiced wood and malt fade pretty quickly.

Sweet and sherried but in a different way to Glendronach or Macallan. I really like this even with the heat and short finish.

75/100

?



Interesting that you ranked the 18 slightly below the 12 (and both well below the 25, if I recall your earlier review).

I'm a big fan of Bunna, and rank the 18 the highest of the three (followed by the 25, with the 12 bringing up the rear).  The 12 and 18 are indeed very similar in profile, and I found my bottle of the 18 to be far better integrated than the 12 (which also had some slight bitterness in the finish).  The 25 is a fine bottle, but I still find the 18 the most interesting.

Thanks for the reviews, always great to see verticals like this.



Nice reviews! 

I think I've only ever tried two Bunnahabhain, and I was not particularly fond of either. The 12 is a bit too sweet for my taste.



Review number 22. This is the last of my drams at Feather's from two weeks ago. It was quite nice to come back down to a non-signatory, non-exclusive bottle.

Bunnahabhain 12 Years Old.

Region: Islay 

Abv: 46.3% 

Price: N/A in Ontario (Bought a dram at Feather's Pub in Toronto for 6$)

Colour: Medium Caramel

Nose: Wood pulp, a dive club, plum wine, soap, sour candy, far away peat, clovers

This has a very strong nose to it. I had to let it mellow out quite a bit. Almost sickly sweet. No real balance here.

Taste: Burnt sugar, lime, chilli, Ketchup chips, oak, plum, floral salt

Not bad, though still has that overly-sweet flavour. It calms down after letting it breathe, however not really enough in my opinion.

Finish: Peat, more plum, lime juice, sea air, alcohol burn, pork tenderloin. Medium in length.

Nice finish. It's almost like a port finished whiskey, however there are some Islay elements.

Conclusion: At first I was a little worried that I didn't let this breathe enough, or perhaps I had blasted my taste-buds on other Scotches before this one. After letting it breathe for awhile, clearing my palate multiple times, it was still quite sweet. Almost too much for me. The finish was nice, however I really think this one needs more time in the barrel to beat some of the fight out of it.

78/100
