Mystery r/Scotch Sample ? Review #41

Price: ???
ABV: ???
Details:

Nose: Heavy sherry influence. Maple syrup, raisin, nuts, molasses.
Taste: Raisin, marzipan, oak, cinnamon, clove, nougat, flinty.
Finish: Oak, herbal, and sulfur. Fades fast.

Conclusion: A well done, heavily sherry influenced whisky. I love the nose and palate, but the finish isn?t quite my favorite. The herbal note on the finish reminds me of Glendronach. The decent oak influence makes me think that this is a 16-18 year single cask, but the lack of proof makes me think that it is one of their OBs. I?m not good at distinguishing between Oloroso and PX, but it doesn?t seem to overtly be one or the other. My final guess will be that this is Glendronach 21 Year Parliament.
Overall: B

Note: Scores are based on the quality of the whisky. Price/value is not included in the score.



The scene: a neighborhood bar on a Sunday evening. It's fairly quiet, with a couple of groups talking while one of the Hunger Games films plays on the TV at the back with the sound off. I'm at a small table across from my friend. And in front of me is a rather generous pour of Bunnahabhain 18 in a tulip glass. 

Islay, 46%, uncolored and non-chillfiltered, $115 for a bottle in my area. 

Nose: Light smoke, sherry influence with raisins and date paste, a little beeswax candle.

Palate: Smoked honey ham, fruitcake, stewed plums. A splash of water brings out more toffee, cocoa, espresso. Thick and coating.

Finish: Starts a little hot and prickly. With a little water there is toasted oak, cereal, cooked plums, spice. Nicely integrated.

Conclusion: Very solid. Might be a victim of high expectations. The 12 is one of my favorite entry-level expressions and I had very high hopes for this. Didn't blow me away. There?s enough complexity to be interesting, but not a wow. This might be a dram I needed to spend more time and focus on, but wasn?t in the right environment to do that. 

Buy a bottle: Maybe. Can?t think of what I?d like more at the price.  

88/100



Greetings, r/scotch and happy FRIDAY (what are you sipping this weekend?)! Rmill3r here with another whisky review. This is one of the last significant full bottles that I bought for myself recently, and to top it off, it was my birthday malt! Since I loved Bunnahabhain 12 so much, I figured I would stick the course but treat myself to a little something I wouldn't normally buy. Let's see if it was worth it . . . 

Bunnahabhain 18, Islay Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 46.3% abv; natural colour; un-chillfiltered; $89.99 for a 750mL bottle locally; enjoyed a neat dram

Atmosphere: After a stressful work day, I thought it was time to take it back to the basics--something despondent for an Islay whisky, and something equally complex in its own right. Beethoven's "Moonlight Sonata", my favorite Beethoven piece (as absolutely cliche as that is).    

Color: Thick, pale orange-gold

Nosing: Bitter orange peel, surprisingly deep sherry, burnt and caramalized brown sugar, ashy peat remains, pine needles, smooth nuttiness, and a distinct sensation of the seaside air

Tasting: Melted butter mouthfeel, stronger peat note than the nose promised, a little drying, sea salt, sherry, muted spices

Finish: Dry, warm and long peat, eventually soothed by sherry and a tickle of various spices from black to red pepper and clove. There's more citrus-y orange peel and dusty or briny oak plastered over your mouth. 

Score: 94/100

I went with my gut instinct for this birthday bottle, and I was not lead astray. Bunnahabhain is simply not for a beginner. I'm not saying I'm seasoned as I'm still fairly new to this myself, but with more drams under my belt than a brand-new appreciator, I'm realizing why this distillery is so appealing to me. It's really complex. This whisky is not the same as when you first met it. Filled with character, both sweet, mellow, creamy, spicy, and peaty, Bunnahabhain 18 had me guessing from beginning to end. 

One distinct aspect about Bunnahabhain that was only more pronounced in the 18 than the 12 which is partly why I love them so much, is this overwhelming feeling of soaking in the seaside breeze. It definitely has a waterfront distillery nature about it that I can't get over. 

But when getting down to brass tacks, Bunnahabhain 18 is mellower, complexer, and in many ways better than the 12 year old standard yet most likely not quite worth the jump in price. For that reason, it gets docked one simple point from the 12. But then again, check your retailers because $90 ain't so bad for an 18-year-old . . . especially for one this fucking good. 

Related Reviews



Great review of the Bunna 18 rmill3r. Did this 18 yo have more peat than the 12? I didn't get a lot of peat in my bottle of the 12. My only problem with the 12 is that once I have a dram, I have to have 2 or 3 more, is this stuff the same? 

Congrats on the new Tartan! 



Thanks for the tartan man. Yeah, it's been a while since I had that sample of the 12 you sent me, but I seem to notice more peat in the 18. There's very little of it in the nose, though. It gradually shows up in the palate and then there's a pretty fair amount of it in the finish which is nice. Not a blast like Ardbeg, but it's there. 

I'd say the 18 is actually fairly different than the 12 (from what I remember). 



REVIEW #89: Bunnahabhain 18 year - 46.3% abv

Nose:  coffee grounds, musty basement, dark sherry spices, nutmeg, cinnamon, clove, oak, bakers chocolate, banana?s foster, tar, rubber cement?, cooked apples, ripe pear, dried lemon and orange peel, raisins, fudge, fruit cake, salted butter, dark brown sugar, Werther?s Original candies

Taste: Sweet, sour, salty, toffee, oaky, gradually intensifies, custard, creme brulee, raisins, scones, alcohol intensity, nuts, chocolate

Finish: Slow and gradual, the intensity slowly fades away, first you get scones, then it dissipates into a sweet crushed red pepper heat that sticks around at the back of your throat for a while, lingering toffee, fudge, fruit cake on the tongue and cheeks.  Mouth watering in the finish.

Score: 90/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: I tried the Bunnahabhain 12 year once, and that was several months ago and it was in my first sampling batch.  So with that in mind, I didn?t care much for it.  I found it to be the saltiest whisky I?ve ever encountered. But this is much better.  Deeper, darker, more balanced, less salty, so much going on in here.  The combination of aromas and flavors hint at peat, but I don?t think it?s really there.  Good stuff. 



REVIEW #107: Bunnahabhain 18 year - 46.3% abv - (RE-REVIEW)

Nose:  Dark, syrupy, molasses, floral, black tea, roses, dark chocolate, raisins, funk, anise/fennel, cooling on the nose.  Tiny hint of peat in the back. Dried fruits, dark spices.  Hazelnuts.

Taste: Oily, mouth-coating, sweet, syrupy, toffee, melted butter, bittersweet chocolate, espresso, burnt sugar

Finish: Toasted cereal, drying oak, dark cocoa powder, glowing ember of heat remains for a medium-length finish.

Score: 90/100 (no change)

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: I really dig this one.  So unlike other Islays.






Yeah.  I've been thinking about that line in my reviews.  It doesn't really say enough.  

Maybe a motivation level works better



Great reviews!

It's called a horizontal, though.

A vertical would be a comparison of different vintages of the same age.

I just realized this recently...



I think you got that backwards. 

Wikipedia says vertical tastings sample multiple vintages from the same distillery/winery to emphasize the differences in age. 

Horizontal tastings sample the same vintage from multiple distilleries/wineries to emphasize differences in distillery/winery styles. 

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wine_tasting



Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wine_tasting

HelperBot_? v1.0 I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 4917



I have a scotch buying problem. There's just so much to try!

(quickly hides the 135 empty sample bottles he went through in 11 months...)  

Yeah, you should probably get some help.



Rockindaddy here to jam out another review.  I have been on the slow side of posting, work is kicking my ass, but I still keep working on my reviews a bit at a time.  Thanks in advance for reading!

Review # 110

Bunnahabhain 18  46.3%  Swap Bubsyouruncle (Thank You sir!)

Color:  Amber +1.5, Coppery - Slow Tears and Wide Legs.

Nose:  Caramel, Sea Air, Brine, Floral Heather, Wet Oak, Red Apple, Cocoa Powder, Dry Sherry, Sweet Citrus, Orange Peel, Wet Earth, Red Berries (Strawberries), Pepper.

Mouth Feel:  Medium to Thin Viscosity, Medium to Slightly Warm Spice.

Taste:  Sherry, Tannin, Bitter Grape, Black Pepper, Dry Mint, Sweet Barley, Brown Sugar, Red Pepper, Fennel, Cherries.

Finish:  Cinnamon, Floral Notes, Salt, Dry Red Wine, Tree Fruit, Mineral, Cherry Cough Drops, Rose Water, Vanilla.

With Water:  Nose:  Overripe Vegetal, Overripe Apples, Syrup, Lesser hints of Pear, Red Wine, Walnuts, Anise Seed.
Taste:  Bitter Grape is stronger, with the Pepper, Syrup, Root Vegetables, Turnips and Radish, Mint comes back in, and Licorice.

Score:  Nose:  23,  Taste:  21,  Finish:  22,  Balance:  22,   Total: 88

A bit more peppery and spicy than the 12.  A hint of Licorice, more vegetal, especially in the root vegetables.  A good dram, complex, but the 12 seems to be a better buy in my opinion. 



yeah, mine was 120 and i went.. "thats it hey"

very small difference. 



There are so many good IB bunnas available the 18 is a little redundant. 

Great review!



Context: enjoyed with a Ballast Point Victory At Sea Coffee Vanilla Imperial Porter. And this is new: notes are in the order I found them. 46%ABV / $130.  

Color: dark amber.  

Nose: oak! plum, blueberry, varnish, grass, nutmeg, almond, and apple.  

Taste: sultry sweet-sour, cinnamon! malt, grape, nectarine zest, a little brine, and walnut.  

Finish: dry, oak! dark chocolate, espresso, tobacco, chicory, and kettle corn. Big!  

Conclusions: sweet fruity sour bitter nutty salty and very oaky. Smooth and not challenging, but with a big finish. Bunna 18 is tied with Tobermory 15 for my highest-scoring non-peated single malt. Bourbon drinkers eat your heart out! Oh so good, glad I finally tried it. 92/100  

Personal Note: Bunna 18 is also the 100th single malt scotch I've tried. A good choice for such a semi-momentous occasion. 



I know they switched things around with their 12 and 18 at some point, going to higher proof and NCF.  What confuses me is that the older bottlings tasted like they were peated, while the most recent 12/18 i've had lack any smoke at all!

Am I crazy or did they change the recipe too, along with the proof/filtering?  



Yum! I've got a bit of this I need to get into, sounds excellent. And congratulations on your final tartan upgrade!

edit:You were previously set at 80th tartan so we must have missed your last checkpoint. cheers!



Not my 100th review. I love the Tartan! ...but I need to earn it.  I meant this is the 100th single malt bottling I've tried, I guess I should have been more specific.  

(This review #83.)



So I decided to try the slightly older brother of what I take to be a very lightly peated Bunnahabhain 12 which I tried previously and loved. I'm hoping an additional 6 years of aging will add a bit of additional complexity to the already delicious 12 year. From what I can taste, this is a very lightly peated Islay and 18 years spent in wood has really mellowed out what peat might have been present, but still leaves enough of it in there to give that nice dry campfire smoke.

Bunnahabhain 18 / 46.3% ABV

Setup - Neat in a glencairn

Wallet Damage - January of 2017 / 750mL / ~$125 USD purchased online

Region/Type: Islay

Filtration: NO

Nose - Ripe plums, decadent spiced fruit cake, hints of dark chocolate and coffee, bananas foster.

Taste - Heavily spiced fruitcake dominates, bit thin mouthfeel, dark toasted barley, chocolate/coffee granola, dark dried fruits, very fain wisp of campfire smoke.

Finish - Lingering spiced fruitcake again, lightly drying but still thin, nice white pepper heat lingers, light campfire smoke is still present, almost like a lightly smoked honeyed almond.

Score - 94/100

Final Thoughts - Like it's younger brother, this is an amazing Scotch. It's got an amazing nose that really screams "enjoy by the wood burning fireplace during Christmas time." Wonderfully sherried without being too overly sweet. A tiny hint of dry campfire smoke which I can tolerate unlike the wet iodine/rubber peat/smoke I get from other Islays. Wonderfully balanced, and reasonably priced for an 18 year old Scotch.

Whisk[e]y Network Review #144

NOTE - All reviews are done without factoring in price paid.



46.3% ABV

Nose: Very coastal and sea worn.  Sea salt and brine up front.  Like a wayward tidal pool containing half sea water and half solvent.  A good blast of grapes and blanched pears.  Some butter toffee and lighter caramel.  Almond slices brushed with butter and toasted in the oven. Rich, complex and scrumptious.  To me the nose is less earthy than the 12, but more coastal in nature.

Taste: Oily and slightly viscous on the tongue.  A fast arrival of an ocean swell.  A quick influx of salt.  Something along the lines of an oak plank, water logged with sea water.  A nice raisin and caramel pur?e.  A wonderful sweet and salty whirlwind as you hold it on your palate.  Some of the earthy notes from the 12 begin to show now.  Mushrooms saut?ed in butter.  Mild vanilla.  Sour Patch Kids with less sugar.

Finish: The finish adds some allspice and mild black pepper.  Very soft, damp peat that just barely whispers the word Islay.  The finish sweetens as it carries on.

This was one of those times when the tasting notes almost wrote themselves.  Almost everything packed into the nose and on the palate was clearly defined and substantial enough to merit a mention in the review.  Similar to the 12, but perhaps less earthy and more coastal to me.  Bring on the 25.

90/100



You got to be kidding me, we WERE on the same tour together!  I was on my honeymoon with my wife at the time and I distinctly remember you saying this one of your favorites, it's still on my to do list.  I opted for the bourbon cask 16 year while there...still haven't opened it.

What other distilleries did you visit?



Dude, that's awesome.  I love how small this world is sometimes.

I visited Glenmorangie and Old Pulteney after Aberlour.  Wish I could have visited Springbank and Bunnahabhain, but I was limited on time.  When you open your Aberlour 16 year bourbon, please review it!  The sherry one absolutely exceeded expectations.  It's like an A'Bhunadh on crack with better and more intense wood and fruitcake flavors; an amazing bottle.  Went well with the holidays.



Bunnahabhain 18

Nose: sweet, honey, sherry, strawberries, smoke, musty, slightly vegetal, green apples, white wine.

Palate: sugar, smooth, honey, pepper, slight dirt and brine, wood. Orange, cinnamon, hot sauce. 

Finish: wood, orange, cherries. 

This scotch has scored mighty high here on r/scotch.  It's incredibly smooth and I liked it, but I do prefer the 12.  In the 18, I missed the brine, the ocean, almost the rot, that made the 12 so interesting.  It's here, but it has mellowed a lot.  I must say though, this is damn smooth.

46.3% abv

83/100

Previous Bunnahabhain scores/reviews for reference:

Bunnahabhain 12 - 87/100
