Caol Ila 12, 43%, $50

This is a bottle I've had sitting mostly empty for a while, waiting for me to get around to reviewing and finishing it off. I have decided that that day will be today. Here we go.

Colour: pale whiskey

Nose: peat smoke, lemony sweetness, sea salt, white grape tannins, oak

I quite like this nose. It's a bit subdued, not as in your face as Ardbeg 10, but hides a lot of the same elements - sort of a cross between Ardbeg 10 and Talisker 10. It's a nice, chilled back Islay that doesn't demand your full attention, but rewards it if you give it.

Taste: lemons, peat, caramel, vanilla, malt, earth, brine

The lemons pop forward instantly, then hide behind a smokey peat that develops into a mixture of different sweet elements there's caramel, vanilla and a few other things I can't quite place. The peat turns earthy, then the familiar Talisker brine kicks in. It's very easy to drink neat, doesn't burn much at all.

Finish: long and warming - smoke, peat, pepper

The finish is long and warming, with smokey peat and a pepper bite - the perfect Islay finish.

With water: With just a few drops of water, the nose opens up a bit with more apparent sweetness. A bit of pepper in the taste, a bit more caramel. Overall, still delicious - perhaps even better this way. 

Score: 86/100

I like it. It's a bit subdued, not as in your face as the peat bombs a lot of people expect from Islays, but it's a really good single malt regardless, and less likely to send your friends running for the hills if you offer them some. 

A classic Islay, a halfway house between the raw simplicity of an Ardbeg 10 and the softer complexity of Lagavulin 16.



Nice review Dworgi, that's a great price for this dram. The best I can do locally is $68 for a bottle of the 12. Sounds delicious, I like your description and comparisons, it gave me a great feel for where this falls on Islay.

This has been recommended to me by a few other people so its on the list,  I might even pick this up over Lag16 initially as I've had the Lag a few times.

Cheers



Caol Ila 12, 43% ABV (RE-REVIEW)

Nose: Sea spray, earthy peat and faint vanilla. Salted butter. Poached pear. Smoked fish and a bit of honey. A pinch of cinnamon and nutmeg. Floral notes in the background.

Taste: Medium bodied and slightly oily. Smooth and mellow compared to other Islays. More brine and peat. Strong medicinal notes are coming to the fore - Iodine and Cherry Dr Pepper. Overripe nectarines and candied orange peel. Dried grass. Earthy tobacco and charcoal. Pepper and oak spice.

Finish: Oak char. Earthy and vegetal. Floral honey. Aniseed and white pepper. Iodine. More brine and peat. Medium and pleasant.

Better than I remembered. Very nice Islay malt.

85/100 (I originally gave it 80/100)



Before I begin, a big thank you to Hello_Nasty for the sample of the CS!

Caol Ila 12, 43% ABV

Nose: Sea spray, earthy peat and faint vanilla. Smoked fish and a bit of honey.

Taste: Quite oily and full-bodied. Smooth and mellow. More brine and peat. Not much complexity.

Finish: Earthy and vegetal. Aniseed and white pepper. More brine and peat. Medium and pleasant.

Enjoyable dram but too earthy and briny. Ardbeg 10, Laphroaig 10 and Talisker 10 are better.

80/100




We need some sort of petition started to get the Cask Strength in the states.... I love Caol Ila and I highly prefer higher proof whiskies to their lower proof counterparts.  I would love to be able to get my hands on some of this, excellent reviews!

Cheers!



Ditto. Cask Strength has been on my list for a long time. I was a zombie when I came back from my last overseas trip and just totally forgot when I was in duty free. I really like the 12, and every one of these reviews makes me think that I'll like the CS even more...

Oh well, I just tell myself that we've got all these great bourbons in the States and that's ok (it's not).



(it's not)

:( nope



Maybe it's all in my head. 

I'm in Aus too, I might be in touch for some swaps in the near future. Thanks ! 



Continuing my sample tour of standard bottlings, we have the Caol Ila 12.  I've had it many times, but not since I started writing reviews.  Aged for 12 years on Isla and bottled at 43% ABV.

Nose: Sweet and sour.  Some light peat smoke and also a strange note.  Maybe gym socks?  Weird.  Peaches or pears and some vanilla as well.

Palate: Medium weight.  Starts out drier and spicier than the Talisker I just had.  Some nice peat and stone fruit.  Almonds and nuts.

Finish: Medium length, a bit longer than Talisker.  Light peat, a bit astringent.  Lots of wood and nuttiness.  A bit of a smoldering smoke along with the vanilla remain.

Score: 86/100

This is very nice indeed.  In my memory it was better than I found it this time.  I guess having tried a ton of Scotch over the past few months has given me a somewhat better or different palate?   I enjoy it, but I liked the Talisker more.  Either could be a great every day drinker though.

?

Older Caol Ila reviews:



Aged for 12 years on Isla

Slight nitpick, very few Islay whiskies are actually matured on the Island. Diageo barely matures any at all and the vast majority is shipped to their monstrous maturation facility on the mainland.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer with another quick review.  It's an older review I've neglected for no real reason, pay no attention....  Caol Ila 12 year old 86 proof

very similar to a Lagavulin crossed with Laphroaig but a little muted in comparison.  it coats the mouth very well.  not super special but I wish I could get my hands on more varieties.  the Independent bottling from Masters of Malt was one of my favorites.  I need a local cask strength.

88/100



Nice one Tex.  Still in my top 2 distilleries, and the 12 is a great expression.

Given that they're such a large distillery they give a lot of casks to the SMWS, so you get a good variety of young, single cask, cask strength Caol Ila, which is amazing.  The distillery's own cask strength bottling is very good, but quite hard work.



mild essence of bacon

10/10 would salivate again.



Love this malt. But you probably already knew that :P

Nice review, reading it while enjoying a dram. Oily and lightly smoky, I agree! 



The one thing that stuck out to me about Caol Ila 12 is the berry tasty that reminded me of Lagavulin.  

I didn't get a Laphroaig \ Lagavulin hybrid to my tasting.  

To me, Caol Ila, was like a prepubescent little brother to Lagavulin in terms of complexity and smokiness.  



Caol Ila 12

Islay, 43%

color: dark khaki with a silver tint

nose: bacon, clear iodine, slightly floral, hint of peaches

taste: spicy, dry, oily, peat smoke, salty almonds, licorice, hot, tears

finish: long, glowing, dry grass, mocha praline

One of my favorites... Booyakasha!

93/100



This is the 12 year expression from one of Islay's most iconic distilleries (and Johnnie Walker's primary source of peated stock). As is typical with a Diageo malt, a lot of work goes into keeping the flavor profile consistent. 

This is one of my favorite whiskies. I've never really made tasting notes on it before, but I just got given a bottle as a gift so here goes: 

Nose: Wet stones just after the frist rain, when the rain is all dirty. Piss-extinguished campfire. Cut slate. Really earthy mineral peat. Salt. The dentist's room. Ammonia. A hint of sticky woodspice. Some frgrant herbal notes, pepperment and fennel. 

Palate: Salty earth, leading onto woodsmoke and wax with a slight sweet lemony flourish and then a big lump of steaming earthy peat.

Finish: Medium length. Very salty earth and peat with a slight lingering minty, lemony note. 

Rating: 8/10

I really like the strong mineral notes on this one. It's a great example of one of the 3 forms of peat (herbal, mineral, earthy - and yes I made that up). Always welcome on the whisky shelf of an Islayphile.



Piss-extinguished campfire

That a good thing? :P

Nice review, really want to try this. Sadly it's a little too expensive around here.



Caol Ila 12

Caol Ila is an Islay Scotch, owned by Diageo (grovels). It helps make up some of the smoky portion of their blended Scotch, and they are known primarily as a peated single malt, though lately they?ve had a habit of doing a lot of unpeated releases. This is their base peated expression.

12 years old, 43%. Likely colored and chill filtered, though no statement is made...it does seem to look less like it just got out of a tanning booth than some other Diageo stuff.

Nose - Vanilla icing, honey, ashy smoke, lemon,  tar, light black pepper, ocean air, an earthy/vegetal note that comes across as oregano. Surprisingly sweet smelling, though the smoke is certainly quite noticable.

Taste - Honey and vanilla icing lead the way again, giving way to that ashy smoke note with ginger root, black pepper, lemon candies, and hints of the oregano note I found on the nose. Medium body, with a slightly oily feel.

Finish - Ginger root, black pepper, with the vanilla and honey sweetness lingering, with a tangy lemon note making an appearance as well.

Solid stuff. Not great as far as Islay?s go (it can?t hang with Uigeadail), but a nice entry level Islay. Not as medicinal as some others from that Island, so it?s probably not as abrupt an introduction to the big medicinal smoky monsters from Islay, but you?ll know whether or not you like the smoky stuff after this.

85/100




got a sample of this from /u/KaptianKrush...thanks! The picture is of a bottle a buddy brought over to share. Really excited about this one!

Appearance: gorgeous light colour.. Very pale and almost transparent when held up to yellow light. I absolutely love the darker bottle and classic typeface. Very classy looking bottle. 

Nose: nose is very salty/briny, lots of sea air, maritime peatiness, some smoke

Taste: smoke is a lot stronger on the palate, hits hard up front. Very briny, spicy pepper. Smoked meat. Sea-drenched peat.  

Finish: smoke lingers and the meatiness stays with you. Peppery flavour perists at the front of the mouth and it's very warming. 

Rating: 90/100

wasn't sure I was going to give it a 90 or an 89.. I save the 90s for drams I definitely want to own a bottle of one day and I would certainly buy this. I find it slightly less complex than the Quarter Cask, but a delicious Islay nonetheless

edit: @Review_Bot



/u/muaddib99's  reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



I find this to be a very easy to drink scotch. If only it was easier to find around the Cleveland area. 

AlthoughI am puzzled why you save certain scores for drams. That doesn't make sense. 



I think my problem was I can't read. I read this sentence "I save the 90s for drams I definitely want to own a bottle of one day and I would certainly buy this."   as   "I save the 90s for drams". 

Sorry.



Yet another thank you to glinsvad for sending me an Islay care-package swap. This guy is awesome, go pat him on the back and buy him a dram.

Caol Ila is one of those distilleries that seems like no one reviews, and then 5 reviews pop up in one day. Or it seems like people pay attention to Ardbeg or Laphroaig more, and then someone points out how good Caol Ila 12 is.

Well if I'm going to go on an Islay kick, I may as well include this great dram. Heck, I've already reviewed the Cask Strength, so it's time to enjoy the 12. Let's see how it holds up.

Price: $79.95 (CAD), however I received this one from a swap

Region: Islay

Abv: 43%

Colour: Pale Post-it note

Nose: Peat, medicine, pepper, salt air, camp fire, vanilla, smoked meat, raspberry tartness

Very light nose on this, which I'm not used to. It has the usual Islay notes, with more camp fire and sweetness than others. I'm hesitant on this one. The Bowmore reviews have made me a tad gun shy. 

Yes, that was a gunpowder/smoke pun, and I'll thank you to not point it out.

Taste: Peat, grapefruit, chili powder, German salami, ham cooked with pineapple, licorice

It took awhile for this one to open up, however it really starts to have a great flavour. I find this to have more complexity once it's really breathed a tad, and it's smoother than other Islay's I've had.

Finish: Peat, fire, peppered bacon, hot salami, anise

Medium length on the finish, and the peat and fire really ramp up in the finish. I will always recommend the Cask Strength over the 12, however the 12 has a wonderful flavour to it that I can't argue with.

Conclusion: I'd recommend if you've never had the Caol Ila 12 to go for it. It's nicely done, not too crazy, and is great to sip. Also there's more complexity to Caol Ila than other Islay's, while not differing too much like other distilleries have gone.

85/100

Review #45
