Because as I set here sipping a dram after work, why not?  My first review:

Colour: Straw to light gold.

Nose: Fruit, wood, an orchard in spring, blossom, with a rubber-like astringent undertone.

Taste: Oak, pears, pepper, sweet tea.

Finish: Sweet, cream, red apples, vanilla, leaves in summer, still a little pepper.

Overall: 72

A decent bottle to have on hand when I don't want to go for anything more special, and not bad for the $40 or so I spent on it.









"Carbray".

It will make sense to someone, sometime, somewhere down the road.



Er, sorry about this (replying to the same comment twice and all).  I don't understand this archiving business...

Edit: Nevermind.  Got it.



Off work early so let's enjoy it.

Nose: Sharp; unripe pear; woody; honey.

Taste: Honey cider; spice; sweet tannins, like peach tea; vanilla; hint of smoke.

Finish: Short, sweet, and warming; still a tea-like feel.

Overview:  82 to me, this was a nice, light dram. Not really outstanding in any way, but in no way offensive to my palate. While I don't see me buying this myself in a bottle or dram at the bar, I woldn't pass it up if offered at a dinner or friend's house. Pleasant, but not noteworthy in my book.



Do you mind telling us how much you paid for this? It sounds quite nice.

Thanks for the review!



I just bought a bottle of this at my usual place: ~$48. 

About to jump into it; quite excited.



Good day to you, Scotchit! I have all but caught up to my backlog of reviews so my reviews will likely start to slow down as I work on new ones. This time around I felt like something sweet and my nose led me to the Cardhu 12. I certainly enjoyed trying it and my mother has laid claim to the bottle (once I'm done with it, of course). Apparently she has decided it would make for a nice vase. Regardless, I hope you enjoy this review (almost) as much as I enjoy my whisky!

Cardhu 12 Year Old; Speyside Single Malt; ABV 40%

Finish: Long and warm with some coffee, spice and a bit of honey.

Rating: 83/100

A really pleasant, inexpensive scotch. It is a fairly easy drink with enough going on to keep it interesting. I found myself rather charmed by the bottle itself to be honest. Overall certainly worth trying and for its price, I will likely always keep a bottle at hand for those evenings where I am not necessarily looking for a challenge.



Hello Scotchit,

I was gifted this bottle of Cardhu 12 by my brother after helping him and his fianc?e (now wife) with their wedding shenanigans. I had had it before, a few years back when I was in Barcelona for a rock climbing trip. It had actually been our victory drink after getting back alive from a really terrifying and awesome multipitch in Montserrat. As I remember it, it was a fair bit more smoky than I'm used to, and a good deal cheaper than even the cheapest bottle of single malt back home (prices start at a pound of flesh).

This is a good dram, but nothing spectacular. It's really hindered by the overpowering of smoke: if it were more balanced (something that Highland Park seems to have figured out), it would fare much better. However, it doesn't have any pretenses, it's got a cool shaped bottle than pours really well, and doesn't cost an arm and a leg. 65/100.



Cardhu

I don't get much smoke in my bottle of this.

This is said to be a major component of the malt in Johnnie Walker Black 12yr, but that's about the only thing interesting about it.



Just a quick review out of the notebook I started keeping while traveling.

I picked a bottle of this Speyside single malt up a while back, for about $35. Its aged 12 years.

About the only thing of note about this is that this makes up one of the parts blended into Johnnie Walker, and the controversy over the ?pure malt? labeling that happened a while back. This is the single malt version.

Nose: Slightly Musty. Butterscotch. Cork.

Taste: A watery mouthfeel. Green Apple. Buttery. White Wine. Slight acetone.

Finish: Short. Green peppers.

Overall: Nothing to write home about. A little too thin, simple. I can totally see why it gets used in Johnnie Walker blends.

Rating: 75 (Okay)



Cardhu 12 years old

ABV: 40%

Region: Speyside.

Color: Straw, light gold, Caramel E150.

Nose: Bit of alcohol punch, sweet vanilla, malt kick, cereal, old wood and oak. And after some time and totally by surprise, PEAT.

Palate: It feels stronger than I thought, wood, dry oak, and a bit of cinnamon.

Finish: Warm, short, wood, and again dry oak.

Price: 25? per bottle.

Really nice for the money you pay, but I won't buy it again - 55/100

That's the whisky my father (more a cognac type) has always at home, and he does not want to change, despite of my tries with Ardbeg Ten and Glenmorangie 10 years old. It's the first time I try a whisky with a red wine glass, and it is interesting because of the nose boost, however, it accelerates the oxidization.  I am going to try it next time with Ardbeg  Ten, to feel some real peat power  :)



Cardhu 12, Speyside, 40% ABV

Cardhu is perhaps the best case study in my love-hate relationship with Diageo.  I am rather distrustful of massive conglomerates to begin with (being pretty much forced to be a Comca$t customer if you want internet where you live kind of does that to you), and what Diageo did to poor Cardhu a little over a decade ago?basically, trying to subtly relabel the packaging from "single malt" to "pure malt," then filling the bottles with inferior blended product and hoping their loyal customers didn?t notice? was downright criminal.  It did not go over well with either said customers or, as it happened, Diageo?s competitors, who were understandably worried that Diageo?s shenanigans would reflect badly on them and their products.

Fortunately, Cardhu went back to producing single malt after a few years, and the thing is, though, Cardhu puts out a decent whisky despite being owned by a devil titan, much like fellow Diageo distilleries Talisker and Lagavulin (among many others).  I wouldn?t put Cardhu?s entry-level 12 up with the 12 year old expressions of every other distiller, but it is a respectable product that, if you happen to like Balvenie, you will probably find quite appealing.  I certainly did, enough to give it a nice B grade.

Nose: Mossy wood, freshly mown grass, pine, spun sugar, cream, honey, and vanilla bean.  A nice mix of botanical and sweet notes.

Body:  Rather thin and watery; it doesn?t hold up well to the flavors and scents present.  Being bottled at 40% ABV is surely at least partly why, and it is the low point of an otherwise admirable dram.

Palate: Lots of the pine, wood, and grass notes from the nose, but with the addition of salt and citrus amid the sweetened botanical stuff.  The dash of salt and the continuation of the sweets are what would keep me from, had I been tasting this blind, saying it was the Balvenie 12 Doublewood.

Finish: Warm and floral without being cloying, but doesn?t last terribly long, either.  A slight burn that tapers out into one last bit of sugary sweetness before evaporating into the ether.  I was hoping for a bit more length considering its profile of flavors, which are a little heavier than the rest of it.

Price: USD $45 from the state-run liquor store (Oregon is a control state).  Pretty comparable in price to the aforementioned Balvenie 12 DW, so it?s a fair price relative to its immediate competition.  In terms of quality, you basically get what you pay for?not more, not less.

Overall: This is a bottle with some really nice qualities that would make it a fantastic winter scotch for a frosty day like today, but it is let down by a thin body.  Basically, if you like the Balvenie 12 DW but wanted it to be just a bit sweeter and more subtle, this is your scotch.  83/100



Color: E150A and lots of it.

Nose: Sharp, spicy, floral. Pear. Mint. Reminded me very much of Glenfiddich 12; similar mix of fruit and oak.

Taste: Brown sugar dominates. A touch of green apple. Very sweet and smooth. Some vanilla towards the end. Not nearly as fruity as the nose. Somewhat thin mouthfeel.

Finish: Short, sweet, and creamy.

Rating: 70/100. This is classic Speyside style. The nose was a lot more interesting than the taste, which was pleasant but very straightforward. If you are in the mood for a sweet bourbon cask whisky that's tasty but unchallenging, this will do the trick nicely. I enjoyed it well enough but at the price (~ $40) there are a lot of better options. I doubt I'll be picking up another bottle.



How about "Better living through chemistry."

Also, thanks for the recommendation of Pigs nose. Found a bottle in sale shortly after; good stuff.



Review #13-16: Whisky Galore

I went to my first Whisky tasting at a local Irish brew pub and sponsored by the Duluth Scottish Heritage Association.  The line-up was, in this order: Bushmills 10, Cardhu 12, Bulleit 10, Bulleit Rye, Lagavulin 16, Lagavulin 16 Distillers Edition (VIP only), Ardbeg 10, Auchentoshan Three Wood,  Highland Park 12, and Highland Park 18 (VIP only).  At the end they also served a rusty nail (I believe made with JW Black but I am not sure) and chilled Dalwhinnie 15 as a dessert.

I had some issues with how the event went, but it was the first time this was done in my area and I am just thankful they did it as it gave me a chance to try some Whisky?s I had not before for a decent price (VIP was only 75$ and also included an etched Glencairn, not that I needed more but it was a nice touch) as well as meet some local Whisky fans.  

Basically the first half of the night was hosted by a Diageo International Whisky Ambassador, so we had peated Scotch right in the middle of the tasting as he ended on Lagavulin.  After that I just couldn?t take notes on things like Auchentoshan and Dalwhinnie.  He also opened by showing a 15 minute video from Bowmore (we tasted no Bowmore) showing how Scotch is made, while the whisky was already poured and mocking me.  I preemptively nosed my HP 18 during this time but didn?t want to be rude and taste before anyone else?I wish I would have as that drink tasted like nothing by the time I got to it.  After we watched how peated Scotch is made, we had an Irish whiskey, then Speyside, then Bourbon, the Rye, then Islay, then Lowland, then Highland (Island).   The order of things was to make presenting go smooth as opposed to being about the whisk(e)y.  I also wish they had glasses better suited for nosing as opposed to the shooters they used, but at least as VIP I had a glencairn that I used a bit and rinsed out with water in between.  

Cardhu 12, 40% ABV 

Nose:  Very light sherry, figs, plums, and bran.

Taste:  Thin mouthfeel (dat 40%), sherry again, walnuts, nutmeg and a hint of vanilla.

Finish:  short and surprisingly peppery.

Not bad at all, but I wouldn?t buy a bottle.  Still, I do think I like a lighter sherry influence like this as opposed to a sherry bomb?but this needs more meat to it still.

77/100     

I bought this bottle way back in January of 2013 for $50. This is the last pour from it-- frankly I forgot I owned it.

Cardhu 12 40% abv

N: Malt. A little pear. A bit of vanilla. 

P: Honey. A little bitter spice. Herbal notes. 

F: Short. Sugar water and ethanol. 

72/100

A year ago I thought it was pretty good for $50, but I've had so much truly amazing stuff in that range that this pales in comparison. This isn't bad whisky, but I don't see the point in drinking a single malt that's as lame as this.

I'd rather have a decent $30 blend or bourbon/rye than a mediocre $50 single malt. 

Related $50-$65 Reviews:

Aberlour 12 NCF - 91/100 - $50

Balvenie 14 Caribbean Cask - 91/100 - $60

Bruichladdich Laddie Ten - 90/100 - $50

Glenfarclas 15 - 88/100 - $64

Eagle Rare 10 - 81/100 - $30



If I may open a discussion on this Scotch....

I don't know why so many people are harping on Cardhu.  Just because a scotch has subtle flavors instead of overpowering ones doesn't make it an inferior scotch, though that seems to be the general opinion on this subreddit.  I did a scotch tasting with my father-in-law and after a few different bottles I had this one and found it really refreshing.  Light and, as OP seems to agree, a short finish.  I found it nice that this scotch would finish so cleanly, instead of tasting it long after I had drank it.

Maybe after having so many different bottles all flaunting their different flavors and combinations, something that was light and airy was a welcome change of pace.

Again, not trying to say dustlesswalnut is wrong in his review, but I do ask why people are confusing subtle with weak?



All of our reviews are personal and subjective. I get annoyed when I read a review that sounds like the person really didn't care for it but when I get to their rating it's something in the high 80s. I didn't like this. It wasn't that it was light, it was that it sucked. Edradour 10 is light and fantastic. Glenmorangie and Balvenie have some great light and airy yet delightful drams. This fell flat on most accounts. 

This is watered down to the legal limit and tastes like it. There are whiskies that do very well at 40% or 43%, I do not feel this is one of them. 

But again-- it's just my opinion and you're clearly free to disagree. I don't think the drams I suggest instead are over the top bold or anything, and they're all in the same price range. 
