Clynelish 14 year - 46%, $46 

Nose: Salt sea air, sweet honey on American southern biscuits, lemon wax or meringue.

Taste: Honey on top of malt, salt and spice, black pepper. Medium mouthfeel

Finish: Salty and mouthwatering, citrus peel, malt fades away. Medium length

Notes: Very nice profile, reminds me of summertime. 

85/100



Ho scotchit, so you've got a holiday do ye? I wish I had known in advance so I could have saved my Lagavulin DE review for this night. Instead, I'll grab something from my box that seems very unlike anything I've previously experienced in honor of this illustrious day. Plus, how could we not celebrate on 12/13/14? Even the 13th of the month alone is worthy of a nice dram.

This sample of Clynelish 14 came to me courtesy of /u/bigmoneysalsa. Never heard of it before I read a list of "things you should try" on /r/scotch while I was arranging the swap in which I acquired it. Highland and coastal - that's new too. Here we go. 

Price: I could buy it for $59.19 

Nose: sparkly and zesty, but with a hint of smoke. Tangerines, orange zest, and malted grains. A whole lot of fruit (fruit salad) with spices (cinnamon? No, that's not right. Cloves? Eh, something) and nuts mixed in. 

Mouthfeel: thin but creamy. Bright and sparkly! 

Taste: Fruit, brine and smoke, but a different smoke than peat smoke. Fruit salad in a salted balsamic brine, all spread on a piece of burnt toast. A bit of cinnamon or pepper to it too.

Finish: satisfying in a smoked fruit salad kind of way. Medium to short, but the spices linger on the tongue. 

So what shall I say about this one? It's a new combination of tastes for my palate and rather enjoyable. But I am sorry to say it's not going to be going a favorite. Above average, sure, but barely. B-

Score: 81/100

Would I buy it again? Probably not. Maybe. We'll see what the future holds. Rumor is this is the base of Johnnie Walker Green. I have a sample of that in the queue too. But first I have the 12 days of Christmas mystery sample series. Starts tomorrow... stay tuned! 

edit: the rumor was misread.  Gold, not green.

edit again: added price



Clynelish is a very gentle and fruity malt.  I love it, but that's largely because I've been totally burnt out from sherry bombs, peat monsters and CS bourbons lately.  It's nice to have a change of pace every now and then.



This is a review of the third whisky I tried at a bar I went to the other day. I've had Clynelish 14 before, but after trying two other really tasty whiskies I thought I'd revisit it and see if it could compare to them.

Clynelish 14

Strength: 46%

Color: Medium brown.

Nose: Rich and malty, with serious sweet icing notes. Angel food cake with creamy vanilla icing. Funnel cake with powdered sugar. You get the idea.

Palate: Cake! The malt is sweet and cake-like, instead of bready. Similar to Amrut Single Malt, but with a little more barrel character and a little less vibrant of a spirit, due to the age. Chocolate, vanilla, and spice are in there, and nutella filled flaky pastry. Yum.

Finish: Maturity shows here, with a long and balanced finish. Oak merges with the more decadent notes.

Summary: This is as good as entry level ex-bourbon cask matured whisky gets. It has just the right amount of age, the spirit is malty and flavorful, and the barrel complements it beautifully. Well done.

Score: 90/100 

Scotch Review #86

Whisky Review #179

@review_bot scotch



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's  reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Greetings Scotchiteers! For my 80th (and above, kinda) reviews, I decided to post my raw, unedited notes from my visit to OlutExpo 2013. For those of you who can't read Finnish, that means BeerExpo. However, because of Finland's weird (seriously, they're weird) alcohol laws, even though this was an expo for beer and whisky, no website was allowed to mention the fact that there would be whisky or name any names, so I went into this with a pretty open mind to just be drinking beer. 

But when I got there, I discovered it was actually a pretty damned amazing place for whisky and there were tons of drams to sample for relatively low prices. So I only drank maybe a single beer during the entire time. And because I was alone, I was afforded the freedom to review every dram that I had.

Bear in mind that all of these were done on either 1 or 2cl drams, so the detail on some drams may be somewhat lacking. Palate fatigue did set in, but I definitely aimed to drink lots and lots water - probably about 3dl during and between every dram of whisky. 

Anyway, here we go! I'm posting all my reviews here even though not all are Scotch. I might repost the relevant reviews to the relevant subs, but I don't think they're that great so I may not.

Presented here are my unedited notes, taken on my phone at the event. Enjoy! Or don't. I don't care.

Clynelish 14  

Nose: yeasty barley, salty, pineapple and fruits. Malty and fruity, but the sour yeast notes are a bit off.

Taste: malty, bourbon cask vanilla, dry, pear and pineapple. Definitely bourbon caks. Still some yeast, but mostly malty.

Finish: yeasty, dry, malt, sour and sweet. A bit off, medium length.

Summary: Malty fruits and dry oak and yeast. Not terrible, but not that good. Not a daily drinker.

Score: 70/100




I was in the Kilchoman tasting on Saturday. Knew about it because I saw fliers for it at Bruuveri and Gallow's Bird.

High five, fellow Finn!



Thanks to /u/jrsheppa for the sample!  This was aged in a mix of ex-bourbon and ex-sherry casks for 14 years.  According to the label it was bottled in the late 2000s.  Bottled at 46% ABV.

?

Nose:  Rather subdued.  A bit briney.  Lots of grain.  Some lemons and orange.  A hint of smoke.

Palate:  Medium light with an oily/waxy mouthfeel.  Some fruit and wax right away, but fairly simple.  Strawberries and raspberries.  Some cinnamon and nuts as well.

Finish:  Medium finish.  Starts off waxy and briney.  Some peat creeps in.  And eventually it ends in a bit of a bitter woody way.

Score: 84/100

?

Altogether this isn't bad but nothing exceptional either.  I really do like the waxiness.  And the initial fruity flavors are nice as well.  But the nose is just too shy and the finish ends in a sort of rough way.

?

/u/review_bot 'Clynelish'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Clynelish:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



Hi Scotchit! Some casks of Clynelish whisky are still stored for maturation in the old warehouse of Brora. I bet the one that hold this wasn't one of them though:

Clynelish 14

Highlands, 46%

color: amber

nose: carrot cake, candle wax, floral, rhubarb, toffee, soil

taste: candle wax, chlorine water, spices, sea notes, ethanol

finish: bitter and not very long

Pretty complex nose. The candle wax note, especially on the palate, didn't fit for me.

72/100



I've never taken notes on this before because I haven't bought a bottle in a long time. But we're certainly not strangers. I got this bottle as a present for myself after getting a raise at work. 

Clynelish was the first single malt that was really 'mine'.  I'd had other single malts, but the mainstream stuff, this was the first malt I'd sought out on my own and was the one whisky I always liked that no one knew about. My own secret single malt, and it was so fantastically complex (we're talking around 2002-2003 here, before the whisky boom). 

I'd read about it a little after having my interest peaked by something I'd read about it being in Johnnie Gold. I had my uncle get me a bottle from Scotland (it had only just started to be bottled commercially and was hardly marketed at all) and I fell in love with the stuff. It's a bit more available now, kind of ruins the fun of seeking it out, but at least now when I want some it's there.

Anyways, enough rambling.

Aged 14 years, 46% ABV, Coloured and Chill filtered I'm afraid

Nose: Beeswax. Wild flowers. Brine. Rubber. Orange cake. Worn copper coins. But of a herbal note hiding away. Some candied fruit. Sweet white wine. A really nice English Leather aroma develops with a long glass time. 

Palate: Spicy and woody. Not woodspice, two distinct notes here. Peppery spices, pickled ginger and dry wood. Honey. Flowers. Malted barley (like the actual stuff). Citrus zest. Maybe some lemon zest too. 

Finish: Medium-Long. Woodspice. Salt with an undulating honey note. Olive oil. Bitter orange and grapefruit. 

(Biased)Rating: The 2nd best whisky ever! (After Brora ;) )

Yep, still love this stuff. It's complex, approachable, but not overly friendly.



Lovely review! Clynelish 14 has a perpetual place in my home bar and there's not a lot I think could serve as a comparable replacement for me.

I'll also have to be mindful of olive oil the next time I pour myself a dram of it: I can absolutely see how that could enter the picture! 



Clynelish 14

This is a ?Coastal Highland? single malt put out by Diageo.

46% abv. No statement about coloring or chill-filtration. It sure looks like e150 is there, though.

Nose - Honey. Lots and lots of honey. Sea-salty air, green apples, vanilla, lemon zest, a bit of pineapple. Rather sweet and fruity smelling, the salty element adds a nice touch.

Taste - Honey again, with a seawater note, liquorice, lemon zest, pears, green apples, and black pepper, a hint of something orangey in the background. A lot of bourbon cask notes are here, though I think a little sherry was used based on that faint orangey note. I do like that the liquorice and salt notes are there, as it adds a little complexity that makes it a bit more interesting and enjoyable. Medium-plus body.

Finish - Black pepper, honey, vanilla, saltwith a sweet and sour lemon candy note coming in. Pleasant enough, could use a little more oomph here.

Very nice, easy drinking stuff, with some extra notes that add some complexity that your standard Glenwhatever doesn?t have (the oceany and liquorice notes, specifically). I also find the honey and fruit flavors are a bit bigger and tastier with this one as well, with some really lively spices at work here. Always enjoyable.

88/100




Hey guys,

A Clynelish comparison today with the OB 14yo and a 1995 single cask from Duncan Taylor's Dimensions range.

The first time I tried the 14yo I was pretty underwhelmed. It was a lot lighter than I thought it would be, despite the 46%. 

This try I got a lot more from it.

Clynelish 14 46%

Colour: Light Gold

Body: Medium

Nose: Aromatic Highlander. Lovely fresh fruit and wax combo. Grilled pineapple coated with cinnamon (Brizilian style), mango, white grape, citrus- Lemon, camphor, candle wax, sealing wax, a little floral, a little salt.

Water: More full and fruity. Floral note coming out- Old pressed flowers.

Taste: Soft arrival, building acidic fruit with a lovely oiliness, mango, lemon, wax, oily fruit. Zesty development with more lemon, lemon fizz, sour , a little pineapple, some cinnamon, fresh spicy ginger, prickling oakiness, more oily into the finish. 

Water: Fuller as well. Bigger arrival, recedes then a bigger development with lots of orange oil, some chocolate into the finish. Comes together a bit.

Finish: Medium length. Lemon oil, salt with some sour prickling oak. 
Darker with chocolate with water.

Reminds me of some of the other North Highlands malts like Balblair and Old Pulteney.

75/100




I liked your comparison. Great tasting notes! Comparable to my own for sure.

As for other indies, I can attest to Clynelish bottlings from AD Rattray (17yo), Exclusive Malts (15yo), First Editions (17yo), and Cadenhead (21yo). I have yet to open Blackadder (22yo) and my own Duncan Taylor Dimensions (18yo). Everything I have had from Blackadder has been top notch, and even though so far I have preferred the less (Or non) sherried teenage Clynelish expressions, I still have high hopes. As for the Dimensions bottle, the presentation is just too pretty to open. Haven't been able to do it just yet.

Did get the chance to try the official bottling of Clynelish Select Reserve at a Diagio Special release tasting a few months ago... pure bliss in a glass. But even so, that one bottle would cost the same as a few of the ones previously listed combined. Just priced too high unfortunately.



Last full day in the UK, and I wanted to end my long, long list of whisky reviews (oh god my liver hurts) with an advanced, interesting, and sometimes maligned dram before leaving. Yup, it's time to review another from the Next Level malts list, the Clynellish 14.

I happened to butch the name as I ordered it, leaving the poor bartender from Spain to search quite a bit. Clynelish (pronounced Klein-LEESH, as I was told) was originally opened in 1968, right beside the old Clynelish distillery, that had been closed down. Then the old one was reopened and started selling a peated whisky to make up for an Islay whisky shortage (calm down! It's done, we all need to breathe, it isn't happening now). That old one was renamed Brora. Clynelish is now owned by Diageo.

Also Clynelish provides a lot of the spirit used in Johnny Walker Gold, so that's... something I guess. I'm a little worried after reading that, as I wasn't too blown away by the Gold, but perhaps it was the 14 other malts throwing it off.

Region: Highland

Abv: 46%

Price: $79.55 (CAD)

Colour: Dirty bones (Very light brown with some yellow)

Nose: Floral, lemons, lime tart, mace, light mustard

Simple smells, there's a nice, almost Lowland smell to this. The mustard and mace ensure you know you're in the Highlands, but other than being simple, I can't really complain too much about this.

Taste: Lime, mace, burn, mineral water, coconut, wheat, orange, dry, smoke, fake strawberry (beaver anus)

Yup, fake strawberry flavour comes from Beaver anus. No one knows who figured that out, but it turns out we don't just kill the little varmints for their pelts. We also suck on their anus.

Anyway, the scotch has some nice flavours, though they don't really mesh too well. One second it burns, then cereal, then it's dry, then some smoke, then beaver anus. Don't balance out at all.

Finish: Coconut, pineapple, apple, pear, lime, iodine, nutmeg

I like Pina Coladas, not so much dancing in the rain. Wait, where is my lost shaker of salt? Oh, there it is....

Anyway, this has a very nice, if borrowed from the Islands (Caribbean, not Scottish). I'd say that's the best part of this dram, and it deserves good marks for a great finish.

Conclusion: This is, in all honesty, a dram I'd drink just for the finish. The nose is forgettable, the taste is unbalanced, and the finish is great. It's nice, and if you like a fruity and spicy taste, you may like the taste more than me. Try it, and see for yourself.

77/100

Scotch review #108, Highland #17



Great review! This was an early bottle for me, and one that came highly recommended from a friend (liquor manager at a local shop).  I enjoyed it pretty thoroughly for the first month or so, and then it sat for about two months not being touched.  When I came back to it I could really taste the off-putting finish that I kept hearing about with Clynelish (interesting that you found it to be the best part).  After that I just wanted to finish the bottle so I could move on. . .

If I had reviewed it I probably would have giving it a similar mark.  Though when I first started I would have ranked it low to mid 80s.  Maybe sometime in the future I'll give 'er another chance.



Yeah, it has elements to it that are either enjoyed or hated by each person. It could be that I just didn't like the unbalanced flavour so much that the finish seemed like a relief.

Also allow for the fact that I was on vacation in a bar with 200+ whiskies, so my happiness drugs in my brain might have been working overtime (serotonin overdose)
