Distilled/Owned by: Cragganmore / Diageo

Region: Speyside

40% ABV

Mashbill: 100% malted barley

Aged For: 12 years

Cask Type: Second fill bourbon casks

Chill Filtered: Yes

Color Added: Yes

Color: Amber

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn.

Nose: Heavy malt sugar, honey, citrus, touch of fruit, grass, heather

Mouthfeel: Watery

Palate/Taste: Sweet apple, caramel, vanilla, oak, and a bit of almond

Finish: Lemon, white pepper, caramel, with a bit of a bite on the tongue. Decent length and slight warmth.

Thoughts: Another Diageo Classic malt watered down and filtered to oblivion.

Score: 74/100



Thoughts: Another Diageo Classic malt watered down and filtered to oblivion

This was my impression as well.  It's not bad, and I'd drink it if offered, but it's just not anything special and somewhat overpriced in that regard imho.



A cheap entry level from a distillery I have never sampled before.

Nothing exciting but quite enjoyable, was expecting this entry level dram to be awful. Would highly recommend as an introductory dram.



Greetings Scotchit! Tonight, another new distillery. This one's (surprisingly) part of the Classic Malts range from Diageo, and is often called the least interesting of that range of single malts.

It is, as you may have guessed from the big ol' title, Cragganmore 12. This is a sample received in a swap with /u/SeienShin for my Ardbeg Alligator box. Will this turn me on to Cragganmore, despite the lacklustre presentation?

Let's find out!

Cragganmore 12
Speyside, 40% ABV, CF, E150, 20ml sample from /u/SeienShin

Nose: Ex-bourbon. Golden apples and gooseberries. Sweet malt. Wet rocks. Floral, roses. Oak and light spice.

A very traditional unsherried Speyside nose, most in the vein of Glenlivet or all those little distilleries that no one really knows because they're doomed to end up in blends; usually because they have completely unpronounceable names, like Braeval or Craigellachie and so on. 

Taste: Juicy and malty. Honey. Floral. Slightly sour gooseberries. Cake, of the rolled up variety. Light oaky spice. Hint of bitterness. 

Much less apples here, a much maltier and overall more gentle (or subtle, depending on your interpretation) palate. 

Finish: Short, uneventful. Dark oak, light spice. Red apples. 

Gone in seconds, completely forgettable.

Summary: It was a very small sample, so this can't be taken as anything but a first impressions type of review. That said, this was forgettable. It was like so many other Speysiders matured in bourbon casks that I've completely lost track of them. 

There are, of course, really good bourbon casked Speysiders, but this doesn't do enough to impress. It's low proof, it's chill-filtered, it tries so very hard to be inoffensive that it strays way too far into bland, like so many pop acts or Hollywood blockbusters before it. 

One step up from a mid-range blend, but that's all. Do yourself a favour and spend your money elsewhere.

Score: 67/100
Bland.

Most Similar To: Glenkinchie 12, Glenlivet 12, hundreds of others.

Buy Again? No.



Do yourself a favour and spend your money elsewhere.

Noted, thanks for the review Dworgi. Seems a bit one dimensional.



My first time trying Cragganmore.  Aged for 12 years.   Bottled at 40% ABV.

?

Nose:  Cantaloupe, honey, sea salt, grapefruit.  Lots of fruit.

Palate:  Medium thin mouthfeel.  Melons and lemon.  Tangy oranges.

Finish:  Medium short finish.  Lemons with some oaky spice.  A bit vinegary too.

Score: 79/100

?

This is alright, but not that great.  The nose was very promising.  But its a bit thin in the mouth and I really don't care for the finish.



hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  Now I am counting down the final 10 before I hit my 100th review.  #91= Cragganmore 12 year old 80 proof

Color: brown amber

Nose: light malt  and oat.  Vanilla, almonds and a touch of fruit. 

Taste:  Sweet malty, not fruity, mild honey and caramel.  Cereal and oaky, creamy and a bit nutty.

Finish: good mouth feel but quick

a great starter whisky for branching between the likes of sweeter speysides to the robuster likes of Highland Park 12.  I would be interested in a cask strength version because I feel like it lacks a little being 40% ABV.

81/100

ps if youre interested in #92, check out /r/bourbon 



The Classic Malts of Scotland - What's a classic? Wikipedia defines classic as something that is a perfect example of a particular style, something of lasting worth or with a timeless quality.

Sure, in the first instance The Classic Malts of Scotland brand is a marketing issue. But what do you think, do they each deserve to be taged as a classic? Which one does? Which one does not? Why? Other malts aside from these six that should be "classified"?

Cragganmore 12

The Best of Speyside

Speyside, 40%

*color: golden amber

*nose: pears, floral, fudge

*taste: feathery smoke, mellow spice, sweet malt, vanilla honey, oily almond paste

*finish: warm, but quick

Not bad, but didn't knock my socks off. Weakest of The Classic Malts for my gusto.

81/100




Had this with a friend yesterday. Again one of those whiskies I've always passed over but have been curious about. This is the Speysider in Diageo's classic malts collection.

Nose: Light smoke. Roasted nuts. Vanilla. Maple syrup. Honey liqueur. Hint of dry sherry,

Palate: Light spices. Dry sherry. Honey nut corn flakes. Light earthy note. 

Finish: Medium. Spiced honey. Nutty wood. 

Rating: 8.5/100

Again kudos to cragganmore for making a fine malt. I really enjoyed this one and might end up buying a bottle on account of it being relatively cheap and readily available. A very interesting dram, good for just sipping with a mate. 



But when Diageo says jump.....

However you are correct. Edited. 

Further edit. Reminds me of when I worked in a bar, and the owner insisted on making everyone serve whisky with a lemon in the glass because he thought it was trendy. 



I've been lowering my averages. Everyone pretty much gives everything a score of between 70-100, where techincally 50-60 should be the range for average whisky, not bad whisky. 

For me 8 and above means really good.

Plus if they'd not chill filter it and release it at higher ABV it might get bumped to 9.



so i made a post about a company outing the other day: http://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/2petrz/companyorganized_scotch_tasting_oh_boy/

turned out better than i thought it would. so we went to the restaurant, and my boss said if i'm not happy with the guy's selections i can change things up. so i go to chat with the guy who picked the flight and who i talked to on the phone last night (see previous post for details). 

his plan was to start with bowmore 12, then go to Johnnie Gold, and finish with cragganmore 12. i tell him that's pretty much the opposite of whta he should do. he argues saying no you start with bold tastes. i give a wine tasting example, he still doesn't get it, i tell him to stop. i'm the customer and i'm going to tell him how the tasting is going to go. 

i change things up after he argues about pricing and set up a flight of Cragganmore 12, Talisker 10 followed by Johnnie Walker Green label (given those 2 are composite parts of Green, figured it would be a really cool experience). 

anyway, service was terrible, dinner took forever, so by the end we decided to cancel the scotch tasting at the restaurant altogether and i was given the company card to build a flight for everyone at the hotel bar instead. 

i chose a few drams and had some fun with it, telling the group about each one. i asked for input on each too and took notes. so, here they are!

Cragganmore 12 - 40% ABV

Appearance:   yellow. Coloured? 

Nose: honey. Almonds. Floral.

Taste: honey. Oak. Sugars. Candy. Quite sweet. Somewhat one note. Nuts. 

Finish: short. Pleasant. Nothing special. Pepper actually long run. 

Rating: 82




/u/muaddib99's  reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Bold flavours first???? BOLD FLAVOURS FIRST!

Okay, that is by far the shittiest tasting I've ever heard of. That bartender deserves no money, no help, and I generally hope that he has to face a rough time in the future because he's poor at his job that eventually makes him realize that he's wrong.

Seriously, on what planet does "Bold Flavours First" make sense?



i know he's a  tool. 

he added an auto-gratuity, probably because he knew we were dissatisfied and wouldn't have given him anything. it was honestly one of the worst restaurant experiences of my life.



trust me, i wanted to. i've seen your reviews and called them to find out more too... they even had their monthly tasting night yesterday. 

told the boss from the start that we should go there.. she didn't want to cab everyone. :(

sounds like a lot of people are going to bed early tonight (last night endd at 2:30) so i might cab out there and go for round 2!



haha so true. already was the case actually. 

the marketing guy who was there with us said he wants to do a scotch tasting with his team next year sometime and asked if i would set up the menu and host it. fuck yes.



God that is the kind of boss I want to have/become.

also what an enormous glass of Oban! 



C&A Steak company. 

never go there. 



Hi guys,

Some quick Cragganmore today. Did you know they have worm tubs? Which should create a more intense, meaty style. Like Mortlach, Talisker or Benrinnes. Alas, Diageo have seen fit to release this at 12 years old at 40%, so it's never really achieved the status of the others.

?

Cragganmore 12 year old 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Light and mellow. Woody, wood resin, wood polish, sandalwood, light sherry, fruit- Apple, pear, touch of raspberry, toffee, fudge, nuts.

Taste: Soft creamy oak, whisky, bit of spice, freshly sanded wood, fino Sherry.

More fruity with a drop of water.

Finish: Short length. Creamy oak with a bit of coffee.

Opens up with a drop of water. Lacking something....

64/100

?




So... I went on a little bit of a whiskey purchasing binge for awhile there in December, as I deal with stress poorly and buying alcohol and then having it around my house, unopened for months is another one of the things I do. It is like I'm only partially an alcoholic, with some of the expense, though without the extensive liver damage or the constantly drinking or the whole life falling apart bit. If that is you, talk to your friends and get some help. Seriously, I know I started that as a crass joke, but don't abuse alcohol. It will ruin your life. I've seen people's lives fall apart because of it, and that shouldn't be you. Enjoy it, don't abuse it.

Back to the joke: If you're like me, eventually you'll run low on cash and you'll run out of space, and you'll either stop yourself or become a horder, which means it is time to slow down, have some drams, offer some friends a taste, and maybe join /r/scotchswap.

As I've since put some dents in the four open bottles I have, I've decided I can open up some of the samples I purchased last Christmas. Let's start with Cragganmore 12, one of the recommended beginner Scotches from the side bar (if you're new, check out the side bar). Let's dive in!

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Price: $84.95 (CAD) for a 750 ml

Colour: Pale Straw

Nose: Honey, green melon, pollen, orange blossom, cardamom, nail polish remover, marshmallow, lemon filling

This has a very sweet smell. If you've been near a beehive, it's close to that, then the nail polish remover pops up and kinda mars it a little bit. There's some spice and citrus that tries to save it, but it mostly goes artificial... so I guess I'm saying it's not perfect? Also I'm having trouble fitting into my diamond shoes, and all these 100-dollar bills won't fit in my wallet.

Taste: Lemon, Oreo, BBQ sauce, paprika, orange, light mustard, pear

Kinda random. The lemon's the main stay of this one, with the fruit and mustard/BBQ sauce gives it a nice tangy flavour. There's a little bit of sweet in there that I really like, though it shows it's youth with the unbalanced nature.

Finish: Heavy vinegar, chocolate, oak, earth, lemon candy, ginger

Okay, the vinegar kinda hits you hard. I am not a vinegar fan, so that puts me off a little. Medium length, which is nice, and it's better than the taste, but that white vinegar just ruins it for me. 

Conclusion: I could see sipping this as a slight upgrade to Glenfiddich 12. It's interesting, and there's some good things going on here. I want to go looking for the 21 or the DE to see if it mellows with age. Maybe the vinegar aftertaste would go well with fish and chips? Or maybe something sweet, to offset the vinegar flavour? Might work out nice. May not. Maybe it'll fail, and we'll all be sad.

77/100

Edit: This is my 30th review
