Hey hey scotchit, Ardbeg_head here with a very quick review of a Dalmore 12 that Hectma sent me through /r/ScotchSwap.  If you have not yet checked out /r/ScotchSwap do so, PapiC and I are making strides to make the process easier and more streamlined.  I usually like to bullshit a bit more before I get into the review but I am in the middle of writing up a syllabus for my class on whisky next semester and I don't want to take too much time away from that.

Dalmore 12 from hectma

Color: Prehistoric amber

Nose:  As always with dalmore a bouquet of figs is big and bold.  The figs in this case has been sliced open and have had a liberal amount of sugar spread on top to sweeten them.  There is some underlying notes of sticky morrocan hookah tobacco that make me long for my former vice of cigarettes.  There is a bit of sherry warm toast with grape jam.

Palate:  sugar spice and everything nice.  Caramelized figs with sugar once again makes up the strongest part of this dram.  Tobacco flavored with plumbs.  The sherry is there again but this time it goes farther with some vermouth spice sprinkled in.  

Finish:  this time the sugar has been replaced with salt that has a fig background.  For quite a while i could taste sherry lingering seductively at the back of my tongue.

Overall:  the sugar reminds me a great deal of something from the cooley distillery but the figs add a much needed complexity.  The color and complexity makes me think this is probably at least 75% ex sherry casks which is pretty good for this price.  For the money around $40) i would say this is a buy.  I will say that i enjoy the gran reserva (the politically correct name for the cigar malt) quite a bit more than this with its more pronounced tobbacco.  All in all a respectable: 

83/100



I believe I need to learn what e150a looks like

You might want to check out ralfy's video about caramel coloring. Unfortunately it's difficult to tell by looks alone if e150a is present or not. I think at this point it's fair to assume that it's there unless it's explicitly stated otherwise on the label, which is very rare.



Sample courtesy of u/MonsieurZaccone

Dalmore 12, 40%

Nose: Funky and musty right off the bat, not horrible but not totally pleasant either. Once the off-putting notes wear off orange and fruity malt shine through, slight chocolate, some bitter wood.

Taste: Funk is still there but not as strong as the nose. I'm guessing it's just a sherry influence which doesn't always work for me. Very weak and watered down flavors of sweet caramel, mild fruitiness and rich wood, some very mild spice.

Finish: Not much of a finish to speak of, some sweetness and plain jane caramel

Not an amazing pour, but not awful. There's some decent flavor here and it has a nice, mildly rich sherry influence that doesn't go overboard(which is exactly how I like my sherry), but it's obviously hurt by the low ABV. It just has kind of a weak, watered down mouthfeel. If this were in a lower tier price range it would totally be worth having on my shelf as a cheap go-to, since I would pry rate it a notch above things like Livet/Speyburn 12. It occupies a slightly darker and richer realm than the cheap Glen 12's too which is nice. But when you consider that bottles like Laphroaig 10, Macallan 12, Ledaig 10, and Bunnahabhain 12 go for as much or less than this, there's just no comparison. 

Score: 5

1 | Disgusting | So bad I poured it out.

2 | Poor | I wouldn't consume by choice.

3 | Bad | Multiple flaws.

4 | Sub-par | Not bad, but many things I'd rather have.

5 | Good | This is a good, solid daily.

6 | Very Good | A cut above.

7 | Great | Well above average.

8 | Excellent | Really quite exceptional.

9 | Incredible | An all time favorite.

10 | Insurpassable | No better exists.



People that like this tell me it's not that bad.

But no one who's reviews I trust actually likes this.

Go figure.



"But when you consider that bottles like Laphroaig 10, Macallan 12, Ledaig 10, and Bunnahabhain 12 go for as much or less than this, there's just no comparison."

this line 100x times. i bought a bottle on sale for $51 USD just to try it. it isnt bad but i havent finished it either.



Happy Hump Day, scotchit! Thatguy here with a recap of the Dalmore/Jura tasting I attended last week. I?m not a huge fan of the Dalmore line as the only expressions I like enough to buy are quite expensive, but it was 20 bucks to get in. Totally worth it. These reviews aren?t nearly as detailed as I normally prefer to write as we were tasting in farily rapid succession, but they still capture the essence of each expression. Without further ado...

The Dalmore 12 Year ? 40% alcohol by volume ? 750 ml

Aged in 50% American White oak and 50% Oloroso sherry casks

An entry level 40% ABV malt. Nothing special

SCORE: 82/100

The Dalmore 15 Year ? 40% alcohol by volume ? 750 ml

Aged in casks that held 3 different sherries from the Gonzales Byass: Apostoles, Amoroso, and Matusalem

In my opinion, The Dalmore 15 year is by far, the weakest of the entire range. Way too much orange, not enough??not orange? flavors. This one is just not there.

SCORE: 77/100




Great reviews, glad to see that the Cigar Malt is a descent tipple. That's high on my shopping list and this has given me a little more confidence after trying the 12.

Surprised to see the 12year old getting an 82. I'm working on a bottle of that at the moment and it's so boring :(

You really think that it's going to be a power-house, manly whisky when you look at a bottle of Dalmore, but so far seems like its all show.



I get the feeling that I am one of the few people around here that absolutely loves Dalmore 15. 

Also, the Cigar Malt pairs quite well with a cigar. I got a bottle of this over the summer while I was in Edinburgh. You're definitely not ruining the experience with one. Just pick a cigar lighter in flavor. 



Did you throw it on the floor first? Seriously, ya need to drink it the right way or he'll kill ya.

(Sorry, couldn't resist.)



Dalmore 12

Whiskey Network Review #85  r/Scotch Review #42

Price: Sample provided by u/Dyllix

Appearance: Deep gold

Nose: Sherry, nutmeg, walnut cookies, orange, rose water, fudge

Taste: Sherry, fruit cake, raisin, sweet orange, banana, dates, fudge

Finish: Quick, sherry, raisins. 

Notes: 40%, chill filtered, well used casks so E150 added, Dalmore is one of the biggest producers of spirit in Scotland so I imagine they get good use out of their casks, for spending the last 3 years in sherry casks the sherry influence isn't as strong as you would expect. It is your basic introductory sherried Highland whisky, but there are others that do it better. The flavors are light and the finish is very brief. It's not something I would seek out but damn that bottle with the silver stag head is sexy. Artificial color doesn?t bother me but I would prefer it without, however the heavy chill filtering on such a light flavored whisky that needs all the flavor it can get doesn't seem like a great idea, but then again, what the hell do I know.

Something similar but better: Glenmorangie Lasanta

Something similar but worse: Glenlivet Founder's Reserve (not sherried I know, but a low hanging fruit when trying to pick something worse for something I don't really care for)

Rating: 3

Dalmore 15

Whiskey Network Review #86  r/Scotch Review #43

Price: Sample provided by u/Dyllix

Appearance: Burnished

Nose: Sherry, baking spice, orange, molasses, ginger, fudge

Taste: Sherry, marmalade, dried fruit, dark chocolate, red apple, cinnamon

Finish: Medium, Spiced orange

Notes: Also bottled at 40% but so much more flavorful compared to the 12. The 15 uses 3 types of sherry casks and I am guessing much fresher than the 12 as the sherry notes are much richer.  The kicker is of course the price, while I am enjoying this there are some I get the same enjoyment out of for less such as Glendronach 12 or Aberlour 12 NCF.

Something similar but better: Balvinie 15 sherry cask

Something similar but worse: Glenlivet 15

Rating: 6

10  Desert island bottle

9   Personal favorite

8   I would like to keep a bottle of this open at all times

7   Good enough that I would buy another bottle at MSRP

6   Above average, could drink daily, stock up when on sale

5   Average\Run of the mill

4   Drinkable, but not my preference

3   I wouldn?t choose to drink this.

2   Just gulp it and get it over with

1   Couldn?t finish it



Dalmore 12.... so much disappoinment.

3 is appropriate.



See, I've never actually met someone who was a "Dalmore" drinker. I know people whose goto malt is an Ardbeg, Macallan, Lagavulin, GL, etc., but I have yet to encounter this mythical Dalmore customer.

I never see anyone buying it at my local stores and examples on the shelves are all dusty. Their brand and packaging is also very kitschy; it looks very Olde Clan Mackenzie try-hard. I haven't had their stuff in a number of years, but I remember thinking it was ridiculously over E150'd and was pretty average - not bad, just average for very above-average pricing.



Reviewing a whisky that has a bad rep around here.  I happened to like a bunch of Dalmores that I had tried, so I figured I'd give their entry level bottling a chance.  Chill filtered, 40%, plenty of caramel... not a great start but let's see.

Nose:  Cooked raisin, honey, caramel chews, buttered raisin toast, generic liquid soap, and some plastic wrap.

Taste: Pretty standard Dalmore intense caramel with some cooked raisin and cooked apple.  Sweet.  Again, a bit plasticy/soapy.  Doughy (yeasty I guess) sweet bread.  Those chocolate orange things and some orange soda too.

Finish: Sweet and pretty lasting for a 12 year old, but there's some plastic going on in there too.  Dried fruits, slight wood spice, but a lasting caramel and coffee note.  Again some soapy tones on the tail.

Final notes: Not the worst whisky I've had, but very sweet.  Kind of a one-trick pony with the caramel and cooked raisin.  Lacking in complexity and in general there are flavor notes just sitting on top and lacking integration.  Plenty of cream sherry in here it seems, and Dalmore's spirit oozes caramel sweetness to begin with, so this is a very sweet whisky.  The plasticy and soapy tones really aren't helping this one, and at times I wonder if someone spilled liquid soap into this whisky.  Kind of flat, but I prefer it to something like Johnnie Walker Black.  I don't think it's dreadful, but it has turned into my go-to whisky when I'm looking to have more than a few.

Final score:  82/100



I really like Dalmore. Let me start by saying that. Thanks for the review. It has been awhile since my last bottle, perhaps it is the sweetness my wife likes. She prefers I drink this if I am to kiss her when drinking Scotch.
I have a bottle reserved from their 2000 batch. I can't wait till it is mature.

Have you tried any other years or expressions? 



I have had the 15, which I enjoyed, but is not worth the price they ask for.  I also have an independent Dalmore from Duncan Taylor (18yo single bourbon cask) which I consider to be one of the best whiskies currently in my collection.

I'm not sure how well they sell their whisky in comparison to, say, Balvenie, but IMO they are both way overpriced.



Do you like boring and sweet drams? If you do, that price is pretty good. Otherwise, there are better bottles for that price.

That glass looks cool!



I really enjoy the dalmore 12! One of my fav 12 year olds.

But the dalmore cigar malt.....wow



Dalmore 12 (Single Malt, Highland, 40% ABV, 75cl)  

Price:  $101 CAD  

Tasted:  A sample poured at a tasting.  

Colour:  Amber +3, but this is likely coloured.  

Nose:  Classic sherry cask influence?honey, heather, sweet raisin-y notes. Pistachios, puffed rice, subtle tobacco smoke. Plenty of oak and some bourbon cask influence.  

Palate:  Oh-so-lovely flavours, unfortunately it?s a bit thin mouthfeel-wise. Very brandy-esque, grapes, salt, wood-derived smoke, oak, then some maltiness and spice makes itself known. It?s soft like a blend with grain whisky, but isn?t. That?s probably intentional, or from the 40% ABV.  

Finish:  Dry honey/mead, cigar smoke, dry oak and woodiness. Medium length, decent but not super complex.  

Packaging/Design:  So many bloody whiskies and beers and wines are obsessed with antlers. Even Jagermeister! If you want your product to stand out, maybe stop putting stags on it. That said it?s a pretty bottle aside from the gilded antlers.  

Conclusion:  A great intro to whisky, this tastes a lot like how I imagined Scotch would taste before I tried it. I imagine a peated Dalmore would be interesting, but the smoke might overpower and ruin the balance they?ve got going on. Dalmore at 43% and up must be nice, but I wonder if bottling something at 46% would ruin the softness they?re going for.  

82/100.

?

Dalmore 12

Highland, 40% ABV

Nose: Caramel, maple, brown sugar, vanilla, sour citrus, iodine, tobacco

Palate: Caramel, nutmeg, oak, raisins, smoke, malt, honey, sour citrus

Finish: Tobacco, oak, sour, dry, smoky, sugar

77/100 Heavy on the sour fruit, tobacco and caramel yet still almost too sweet. A strong 40% and a little rough around the edges. A lot going on, lots of powerful flavors just doesn't completely follow through. 



Dalmore 12, 40% ABV

Mix fancy packaging, low strength, plenty of caramel coloring, chill filtration and a master distiller who publicly advocates throwing it on the floor and you've got the Dalmore, the antithesis of /r/scotch, a brand that perhaps more than any other has a reputation for style over substance. Even so, I'm not that biased against the brand; I attended a free tasting they put on a couple years back and had a jolly old time, and I intend to give the 12 a fair shake. This one is the 2009 bottling.

Nose: Molasses, malt, maple, persimmon, aloe, a bit plasticky.

Taste: Now that is a THIN mouthfeel! Orange creamsicle, caramel, rye. Grainy. Blind, I'd probably guess it was a blend.

Finish: Medium-short. There's a hint of oak and orange and not much else, sadly.

This is not very good but I'll toss it a C+. It's pleasantly orangey (if a bit artificial) and I would rather have it than, say, Glenkinchie or Dalwhinnie. I'd love to try it at higher strength. 80/100



So I haven't had a Dalmore 12 since ~ 2010 and what you describe sounds about the way I remember it. The question is, since your example was bottled, has it changed, possibly for the better? I'm guessing not, but it'd be interesting to know.

The most recent example of a Dalmore expression I've had was that Cigar Malt thingie. It wasn't bad, but it sure was silly and contrived (holy smokes, it was colored like it was nothing but 40 year old first-fill hogshead, just silly dark). It also had a blend quality, almost like a malt blend as it seemed like there were competing malt profiles. I don't know how much the stuff costs (wasn't my bottle), but it tasted like 50 dollar whisky, but I'm guessing from the fancy presentation that it's probably well north of a c-note.



HIGHLAND REGIONS

REVIEW #31: Dalmore 12 year - 40% abv 

Nose: Dark. Cherries. Dark cocoa powder. 

Taste: Chocolate covered cherries.  Boom! wow.  Black forest cake.  Dark chocolate.  Espresso. 

Finish: All of that lingering with the warmth of a wood burning fireplace.

Score: 87/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Delicious. I love how different all of these whiskies can be.  Gotta collect ?em all!

