Review #2: The Dalmore 15 Year Old
The Dalmore is a prominent Highland distiller and is considered by many to be one of the richest scotches in all of Scotland. It is widely revered in whisky auctions and they've even had a bottle reach upwards of almost 120,000 pounds at a Harrod's auction in 2011. The distillers motto, "I Shine, Not Burn," reflects in the way in which they produce their whisky and aim for more delicate and rich batches.

The 15 Year Old Bottling runs for around $120 Canadian, which is moderately hefty for a 15 year old Highland single malt. This bottle was initially matured in American White Oak ex-Bourbon casks for 12 years and then further matured in Amoroso, Apostoles and Matusalem oloroso for an additional 3 years for this one has been around quite a bit. The dram I tried was bottled at 40% ABV and is chill filtered.

This is a solid 15 year old single malt however for the taste and finish being a tad bit mediocre for the amount of praise it gets I would say that this is definitely not worth the listing price of $120 Canadian. However I still think this would make for a nice Christmas present as the Christmas cake flavor might be something that a friend who doesn't usually drink single malt scotch might enjoy, however a dram at the local pub would likely be suitable unless your friend is a good enough friend for you to put down $120 on this bottle of just above decent 15 year old.

Score: 80/100 Revised Score 74/100



>Dalmore
>Natural colour

Pick one



Had this bottle only a couple of weeks, one of my definite favorites and go-to dessert drams. If I was a cigar smoker, this is a definitely cigar smoking scotch.

Tasting Atmosphere: A few hours after dinner, armchair with a good book.

Color: Rich red amber. Pretty obviously some added color (sigh), but it is beautiful nonetheless.

Nose: Toffee, old leather, sherry cask. Raisin. The longer it stands, the more raisin rises to the forefront. 

Body: Medium-full

Taste: Toffee and leather above all else.  Orange peel, black coffee w/creamer, and soft spice. Not much going on here, but it hits its notes strong and rich. 

Finish: Mild but long. Leather returns with some tobacco. Toffee, once again. 

Rating: 89/100

Price: 65$

Value: 8/10

Uniqueness: 7/10

Would buy again: 9/10 

Notes: This is definitely a love it or hate it scotch. I?m in the former category, though I?d be hard pressed to articulate exactly why. At first glance this is extremely one note, almost flat. Toffee and leather is about all it has going on, and the leather/raisin notes could be quite unpleasant if you don?t like that kind of thing. Sherry is really pulling its weight here. Simple, elegant, and smooth on the good end. Boring and one-note on the bad. Tastes very ?old? but not in a cask-time sense, more of a boardroom, hunting lodge sense. Simple, smooth, elegant, and dark.  A personal favorite. 



Evening redditors. Another set of Scotches enjoyed. 

Review #9: Dalmore 15 yr:

Highland, 40% ABV, Enjoyed at a scotch tasting. From notes

Nose: Nose is just sweet and oaky, nothing too stand out here. oak, caramel, maple syrup, spice cake. 

Taste: caramel, maple syrup, oak tannins, sherry and some sweet fruit flavors in the background. 

Finish: Lingering sweetness/sherry. My tongue has that coated feel.

Overall: If you enjoy a sweeter scotch with not too much oak, this might be
your scotch. I think it's good but not great.

Score:  83/100.




Sounds like you feel like a lot of others on these...nice and drinkable, but not interesting enough to justify the price.  It's too bad, I really hoped Dalmore might be a little spicier - enough to really be in the conversation.

Sad but good review!



The Dalmore 15 Year - 40% - $78

Sipped from a glencairn, bottle opened a couple weeks ago

Color - Rich amber

Nose - rubbing alcohol, oak, sherry, black tea

Taste - somewhat chalky mouthfeel, trace of vanilla and not much 
else, almost flavorless

Finish - sweet cheap cigar tobacco and then its gone

This is one of the easiest drinking Scotches I've had and I mean that in a bad way.  There just isn't anything to it.  If I had to choose a Scotch to get drunk on quickly, it would be this.  I literally had to crack open a root beer after tasting to make sure my taste buds still worked.  I didn't get any spice notes, no sherry other than in the nose, no citrus, just nothing.  At this price, I am rather pissed.

I will revist this later to make sure there isn't some cruel prank being played on me by the universe.  Actually, I just dribbled a little of the Balvenie 15 Single Barrel redneck style straight in my mouth and it had flavor galore so I'm pretty sure my taste buds are fully functional.  I guess the Dalmore 15 just doesn't have much flavor or any kind which on the good side means there aren't any offensive flavors either.

It came with a sample 50ml of their King Alexander III which I will eventually crack open and try.

75/100



Thanks for the review. I've had most of the Dalmore range before and something weird happens between the 12 and 18 year offerings. I like the 18 a lot. The 12 is pretty unremarkable in my opinion and I think the 15 is a few steps further down from the 12! 

For what it's worth, the King Alexander III is downright glorious. Enjoy it! 



I love it when I don?t have to actually purchase the scotch I drink, and thanks to a kind Aunt, that was the case with Dalmore 15. It?s a bit out of my price range (especially given that I tend away from sherry-casked whisky) but nonetheless something I wanted to try. If you?re so inclined, you can read my full write-up here, at Sublime Imbibing.

Appearance: Dusky brown-amber, the Dalmore 15 certainly looks almost old enough to drive.

Nose: Big pops of orange zest ? that?s definitely center stage. Some softer dried floral notes (almost like the base notes of a perfume.) Has a lush, ripe fruitiness too, that I couldn?t quite identify.

Taste: Damn good stuff. Big orange notes (for which Dalmore is well known). There?s also a backbone of warm nuttiness and malt, almost like a good English brown ale. The complexity is achieved with undertones of ginger and nutmeg, giving Dalmore 15 a distinctly Christmas taste. There?s also read fruit and sherry notes, courtesy of the sherried wood.

Finish: The finish is really good, lengthy and softening into lightly sweetened coffee and cream. 

Overall, 89/100. The Dalmore 15 is certainly priced outside of a daily sipper for me, but it?s definitely worth a taste if you get the chance. Anyone else feel similar?



Dalmore gets a lot of hate around here. I don't understand it, really. I think there's a level of snobbery around it. Caramel! Chill filtered!

Fuck it, it tastes good.






Plums, cinnamon, caramel, apples, coffee, the kitchen sink.

Care to expand?






I can understand some of the poor reviews on /r/scotch, but not Dalmore. 

This seems to have turned into some sort of fanboyism and groupthink. Dalmore is fantastic, specifically the 15 year which IMO is one of the best value and price combinations out there. 



I prefer the Corry to the Uigie, too.  It's maltier.

I really didn't read any of the existing reviews before I went to the tasting.  I just didn't think it was that great.  And to say that the 15 is one of the best price / value combinations out there is something I whole-heartedly disagree with.  Shit, you could buy two bottles of the twelve and be in a better place.

Now, I really like big, peaty, smoky Islays, so I'm sure that influences my opinion, but that's what a review is, isn't it?

Other drams I'd prefer to the Dalmore 15 that are the same price or less:

I'm sure there's more, but I get annoyed when people tell me my OPINION is wrong.



I apologize I was responding only to /r/Cockdieselallthetime and didn't mean to claim your opinion was wrong...

Everybody likes their own thing, I was just trying to convey to him that it's not worth assuming everyones opinion is swayed by popular opinion because a) you never know and b) you'd never trust anything.

For what it's worth i'll be following your posts/reviews moving forward because i'm a big fan of big, peaty, smoky scotch myself!  Cheers!



The Dalmore 15 years old

Some months ago I bought a bottle of this in Barcelona?s airport, it was in offer so I thought it was a great deal, unfortunately I grew tired of the bottle, and I kept it in smaller bottles to prevent it from oxidation.

Region: Highland.

ABV: 40% (CF).

Age: 15 years old.

Colour: Russetmuscat, thanks to some caramel added.

Nose: Leather, dust, sherry, nuts, chocolate, tobacco, oranges and some fruits, and a rather putting off smell of unventilated rooms.

Taste: This improves a bit, plumbs, dark fruits, sherry, more leather and tobacco, traces of honey, caramel (not the added one).

Finish: Port, red wine, thick chocolate cake, cigar, vanilla, honey, and even some dried fruits.

Price: 53?. For this money you can get Ardbeg Corryvreckan or Uigeadail, Glendronach 18 or CS, Aberlour A'Bunadh that are much better and honest whiskies.

It looks luxurious, with this colour, the nice bottle design, and to some extent it tastes so as well. So I guess they succeed in whatever they were trying to do. Another great whisky for showing off (they will be impress, and like it), I guess they are also competing with Macallan or JW Blue Label.

I was particularly disappointed by the smell, taste and finish were just ok, nothing to be crazy about.

64/100 - I won?t buy it again, but I want to discover what this distillery offers through IB, because the concentration of flavours was really impressing.



I would say they don't have any samples or so; and they offer is pretty standard, some Laphroaig, Balvenie, Macallans, Glenfiddich...

I have been there several times, and I would think more about buying quality red wine rather than whisky. Priorat and Montsant are amazing wines, but I would also skip most of Riojas, they are like Dalmore in the wine business (poor quality for what you pay, but really useful for showing off).


I get the feeling that I am one of the few people around here that absolutely loves Dalmore 15. 

Also, the Cigar Malt pairs quite well with a cigar. I got a bottle of this over the summer while I was in Edinburgh. You're definitely not ruining the experience with one. Just pick a cigar lighter in flavor. 



Here's a Dalmore 15, bottled in a very eye-catching decanter.  I believe this is a 100% sherry version, despite what their website currently says (this may be an old bottling).  It claims on the back that this is matured in Oloroso, Amaroso, and Matusalem sherry casks (and leaves no mention of bourbon cask).  I believe this dram is chill filtered and likely has some caramel added, although the color is very likely dark naturally.

Nose:  Sweet syrups, red grape, dark chocolate, leather, cherry, banana, and clementine.

Taste:  A bit watery of a mouthfeel (likely from the chill-filtration).  Verry rich.  Vanilla cream frosting, rich lemon cake, marichino cherry, and apple-grape juice.

Finish:  In all the cask influence lasts surprisingly long.  Caramel, toffee, fresh cinnamon, strawberries/peaches in syrup, and some citrus notes.  The finish is dry and woody, with bountiful bitter oak tannins.  European oak shines in here, and I wouldn't be surprised if most of the casks were first-fill.

Final notes:  Jeez, with all of these meh Dalmore notes this one shocked me.  This tastes like it could be confused for a dram many years older.  On first opinion, this malt was very meh.  I felt short-changed in mouth feel and the flavor just didn't make up for it.  The longer I drank it, the more the real sherry beauty in this one started to show and the intense richness of this dram became apparent.  40% really isn't very evident here, and although I'd love to see this NCF and 46+%, its surprisingly great as is.  Just goes to show that there are ALWAYS exceptions to the rule.  Great, FRESH casks make all the difference.  It's a bit expensive, but I was pretty surprised nonetheless.  Not a must-try, but if you see this exact bottling and are a sherry-snob, it's worth a shot.  An old-style sherry malt with a new-age presentation.  The only thing I find lacking is mouth feel.

Final score: 90/100

Postnote:  This whisky NCF and @ 46% would score at least 2 points higher.  Unfortunately I think they changed the recipe since this release was bottled.



The web site seems to claim that they are all sherry/bourbon finished and started in ex-bourbon.

This particular box says on the back, "Matured 100% sherry casks - Matusalem, Apostoles, and Amoroso" so I find it hard to believe that there is any bourbon save for false advertising.



I like your heads up display rating on the whisky pic! Do you have a photoshop template for that? It would make a pretty cool way to catalog all the whisky sampling that you've done and have at-a-glance scoring available.

I've not tried any Dalmore anything yet. Need to find a swap sometime, and it sounds like this may be the one to swap for.



Did you throw it on the floor first? Seriously, ya need to drink it the right way or he'll kill ya.

(Sorry, couldn't resist.)



Dalmore 15

Whiskey Network Review #86  r/Scotch Review #43

Price: Sample provided by u/Dyllix

Appearance: Burnished

Nose: Sherry, baking spice, orange, molasses, ginger, fudge

Taste: Sherry, marmalade, dried fruit, dark chocolate, red apple, cinnamon

Finish: Medium, Spiced orange

Notes: Also bottled at 40% but so much more flavorful compared to the 12. The 15 uses 3 types of sherry casks and I am guessing much fresher than the 12 as the sherry notes are much richer.  The kicker is of course the price, while I am enjoying this there are some I get the same enjoyment out of for less such as Glendronach 12 or Aberlour 12 NCF.

Something similar but better: Balvinie 15 sherry cask

Something similar but worse: Glenlivet 15

Rating: 6




See, I've never actually met someone who was a "Dalmore" drinker. I know people whose goto malt is an Ardbeg, Macallan, Lagavulin, GL, etc., but I have yet to encounter this mythical Dalmore customer.

I never see anyone buying it at my local stores and examples on the shelves are all dusty. Their brand and packaging is also very kitschy; it looks very Olde Clan Mackenzie try-hard. I haven't had their stuff in a number of years, but I remember thinking it was ridiculously over E150'd and was pretty average - not bad, just average for very above-average pricing.
