Glad you got around to this one, still one of the wife's favourites. :)

I must be the only one who finds a touch of smoke here. It's not obvious, but try this one next to other the classic light malts (AnCnoc 12, Arran 10, glenlivet 12, etc), and it just sort of pops out. Puts it up a notch compared to all of them in my books.



Dalwhinnie 15

(43%, ex-bourbon cask matured)

?

Thanks to u/cpfselfbuilt for this sample!

?

Nose: Honey, apple, malt, hay, floral 

Taste: Honey, vanilla, malt, hay, walnut, pepper

Finish: Malt, hay, walnut, pepper

?

The nose is light and sweet, with the honey and fresh cut red apples up front, a bit of malt midway through and some faint hay and floral notes mixing with the apples (a little less fresh cut, a little more cider now) over time. Less sweet/fruity and little heavier on the malt, grass and grain in the taste along with a light nuttiness that emerges over time and a bit of a peppery note. More of the same in the finish. 

Eh? there?s not a lot in here. The nose, while straightforward was decent, but the taste and finish is where things start to lose the interest quickly. The flavours are thin and watery, on the bland side without any real depth. No rough spots or off notes, mind you? just not much of anything really. It?s mild, inoffensive and eminently forgettable. 

?

73/100



Fair. It?s still one thing to assume something, and quite another to experience it though. 

I?ve been pleasantly surprised by things I didn?t think I?d like going into a dram before, and also vice versa. Trying to limit what ?I think I know? going into something for the first time :)



Perkam, why are you picking on this point?

The whisky lived up to its reputation and he noted that. Do you rag on reviews of Islay whiskies that mention the peat?



He also said it's 15 years old. And that it's 43% ABV. And that it's ex-bourbon cask matured.

Most of us know that too. Is it a problem that he pointed out THOSE things?

I think we're all just perplexed about why you're poking at that one little comment that's totally in-line with (a) the community consensus and (b) his own score.



Review 223: Dalwhinnie 15 
* 15 years 
* ex-bourbon
* 43% ABV 

So, I have had this bottle since I first started drinking scotch with any regularity years ago. It has been pushed to the back of the shelf over time, as compared to many whiskies it is a little bland. Figured I should review it before I finished off the bottle. 

Nose: Honey, floral, vanilla, light, apple, hay 

Palate: Honey, floral, vanilla, lemon, apple, light mouth feel 

Finish: Honey, malt, lemon, vanilla, pepper, hay. Short to medium. 

Score: 76 

Easy drinking, but not that interesting. Good for a pour on a warm day when you are not trying to think about what you are drinking. Thin mouth feel and short finish do not help it. 



i get the faintest hint of smoke but you damn near nailed it.

i loved it the first time i had it, but the more scotches ive had the more it falls back to the middle of the pack.



Had this on Saturday night with a Monte Cristo White. 

Good review, very accurate. 



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with a live review of Dalwhinnie 15.  [12:00am]

Color: pale ale [12:05am], I dont know why it took me five minutes either.

Nose: soft honey and dandelions, mineral water and a wisp of light smoke [12:08am]

Taste: watery white wine, vanilla yogurt, silky maltiness, buttered frosting [12:13am]

Finish: tries to be "the gentle spirit" as it says on the bottle, theres a mild spice and then kind of fizzles out fast. [12:15am]

well, I've had this bottle for a while and it has never really wowed me.  I can see what it tries to be and to me it fails.  I give it credit for being 43% alc/vol and aged 15 years but in the end it is kind of weak.  Weak has it's place though.  It can be a good refreshment or palate cleanser between scotches.  I think Dalwhinnie wants to be Glenfarclas 12 but Farclas wins hands down.  I think maybe they came up with the tagline "the gentle spirit" after they made the first underwhelming batch.  Not the most awful Scotch I've ever had, but definitely would not pic up again.  I know what I like in this kind of malt and Glenfarclas is superior in it.  [12:20am]

71/100



Dalwhinnie 15

The Gentle Spirit

Highlands, 43%

*color: apple cider

*nose: floral, honey

*taste: sweet malt, vanilla ice, honey, soft, no smoke

*finish: mild, truly a "gentle spirit", gone quickly

The Dalwhinnie 15 years old polarizes. It's subtle, not spectacular, to some too simple. But I like it, it's not pushy, lightly fruity, the right dram for a mild spring evening or an aperitif.

86/100




This is one of Diageo?s classic malts, meant to represent the character of the Highland region, namely light, fruity and floral. The distillery is one of Scotland?s highest, not that it affects the whisky in any way, but who doesn?t like trivia.The malt is the backbone in the Black & White blend which is where the vast majority of it goes. Aside from this expression, the distiller?s edition and some NAS gimmick with snow on the box one barely sees a Dalwhinnie in the wild.

Aged 15 years. 43% ABV. 

Nose: Quite pleasant. Peaches. Orange blossoms. Light honey. Quite a heavy malt note. Light woodspice. Some grassy, floral notes.

Palate: Malt. Honey. Oak. Grass.

Finish: Short. Malt. Wood.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: No

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 2/5

The nose was pleasant albeit boring, the palate and finish suffer from chill filtering. I really have nothing bad to say about this whisky, but not much good either. I?m always weary of these single malts that form the large part of blends and they tend to lack any unique character which is what makes trying all these whiskies fun in the first place.

Reviewed in my blog:
https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2016/11/02/dalwhinnie-15/



Dalwhinnie is one of the ?original six? Classic Malts put out by Diageo?s predecessor in the late ?80s. This one represents the Highlands region (not to be confused with Oban, which represented ?west Highlands?). Fun fact - Dalwhinnie is the distillery with the highest elevation in Scotland.

15 years old. 43% abv. Chill filtered and colored most likely.
Thanks to /u/theMemeisaLie for the sample. 

Nose - Sweet, floral, light, and citrusy, with some mild spice. Honey, vanilla, lemon zest, ginger, mild black pepper, lavender. That floral note is fairly strong, but otherwise this is easygoing and pleasant.

Palate - Sweet and light again to start - the honey and vanilla notes especially - picking up some citrus, ginger, a bit of lavender, and black pepper as it develops. This is about the lightest bodied Scotch I?ve had outside of shitty blends, but I don?t feel like it?s lacking in flavor.

Finish - Lemon zest, ginger, black pepper, with a sweet honeyed note and a definite floral element that comes back a bit stronger than I?d like. Fairly mild and easygoing.

Not bad overall, but certainly nothing memorable. I do like the sweet + citrus notes, and some much needed spice is there. That said, it is a bit light, and I find floral notes in general to be kind of annoying, so if that?s your thing you?d probably like this more than me. I do think this would be a solid enough introductory single malt, if a bit expensive when compared to Glenlivet or Glenfiddich 12.

80/100





Dalwhinnie 15

Colour: Diageo GoldTM

Body: Medium

Nose: Lovely classic Highland profile. Full of honey and vanilla, slightly outdoorsy with heather.

Taste: Good mouthfeel, probably the best aspect of this one. More of the nose, honey, heather, vanilla and some spice comes through.

Finish: Medium length. The spices fade off.

Classic style, but doesn't quite have the character of Oban or some of the other Diageo classics.

72/100

?

Thanks for reading!

Review #305



Diageo GoldTM

too true... Sadly.



Many producers add caramel to their whisky to give it a darker colour. This is many to make it appealing looking to people less knowledgeable about whisky, as they probably think a very pale whisky is not as good as a bright gold or even darker one. Truth is, a good whisky can definitely look something like this but it doesn't appeal to the majority of the less-knowledgeable whisky drinkers that way.

Now that particular golden colour is indeed created by a lot by Diageo distilleries. It's (almost) not possible to create that shade with cask influence alone, as it has a shade of orange in it that's in whiskies pretty much exclusive to the caramel influence. Compare this one for example to Johnny walker Red label, Glenkinchie 12 or Oban 14. All very different whiskies of different ages, yet all have extremely similar orange-ish gold colours. All are Diageo-owned distilleries. Almost all distilleries are part of a larger company, and Diageo in particular owns a lot of distilleries and blended-whisky brands.

Now using caramel to colour a whisky is not exclusive to Diageo at all, but they are known to use it a lot. Also there are quite some distillers that don't use colouring at all, such as Bunnhabhain, Bruichladdich, Sprinkbank (they produce Springbank, Hazelburn and Longrow) Highland Park, Kilchoman, Ardbeg and definitely others, or certain bottles by other distilleries. Independent bottlers generally don't colour their whisky either since they're producing more for the people like "us", the whisky community, than the average consumer.

Caramel is, with very very few exceptions, used to change the colour and the colour alone. It's a very strong colourant so they don't have to use much, you won't taste it. Pure caramel also isn't sweet: the idea that caramel is sweet comes from caramel toffees and such, where a lot of residual sugar not used in the caramelisation process is still present. Pure caramel is such strong colourant that it looks completely black to the eye, and it tastes fairly bitter but not super strong. Caramel is the only additive that's allowed besides the key ingredients in scotch whisky by the way.



Network Average: 74.3

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent

?

Full Disclosure Disclaimer: I currently work as a Brand Ambassador for Penderyn Distillery. The views expressed here are purely my own and do not reflect the views of Penderyn Distillery or The Welsh Whisky Company. I try to maintain as much objectivity as I can but feel free to take my reviews with as big a pinch of salt as you like. Furthermore, I have never accepted free samples from anyone in the whisky industry, but have bought bottles or samples with my money, bringing a different set of biases. Also, my rating scale is NOT based on a Parker type wine scoring scale or a school/college/university % or A-F grade score. I apologise for any seemly low or 'bad' scores given with my system and am sorry I can't say only nice things. Please keep in mind that I am ethically compromised and am unable to produce 100% unbiased reviews.



Had this one (and wrote this) on the third day of Fan Expo, and I'm basically a Zombie. And not in the way that most people are Zombies at Fan Expo. No. Turns out walking around all day, eating pizza and pulled pork, and then pouring alcohol on it, all together, sucks the energy out of you. It was awesome.

So after watching a bunch of celebrities and awesome cosplays, I decided that I needed a drink. Nothing fancy, just one of the Beginner Drams, the Dalwhinnie 15 year. 

Dalwhinnie is set in the mountain region of the Highlands, and as such, is the Highest distillery in Scotland. Well, until some laws are passed, and then the "Green Kush Benson" distillery starts up, and that moniker won't be around too often, what with the new green label in town.

Only 10% of Dalwhinnie is sold as single malt, with the rest used in Black & White blends. That doesn't bode well.

Abv: 43%

Region: Highland

Price: $89.95 (CAD)

Colour: Ray of Sunshine

Nose: Apple juice, white peach, lime, light spice rack, wheat, tiny oak

Very light, and nothing too distinct. Kinda like a non-threatening cast member of a show that was made by a committee. I mean, it's funny, however, it's not something you want to watch on a regular basis. Looking at you, Two-Broke Girls.

Taste: Lime, peppery, peach, herbs, apple, light soft pretzel, woodiness, lemon  

Mostly just lemon and wood in this one. Reminds me of a cedar planked fish that was over spiced and over cooked.

Finish: wet driftwood, sour chemical, old basil, cheap suckers (candy), raw celery root

Earthy, sweet, chemically, woody, wet flavoured mess. Like it's been in the cask too long or has too much colouring or it's made specifically to be part of a blend.

Conclusion: Starts nice, and then fails. It's really too bad. Really, having a beginner Highland isn't my best bet, especially after a long day at a Convention. I've had this one before, and never really been mystified by it. It tastes of old wood and lemon. I'd rate it higher if the finish didn't suck. Have something else if you have the chance, or only have a dram.

70/100

Scotch Review #69, Highland Review #9



Hi all! It's mystery scotch time!

So I know this is a Scotch. That's for certain. I know that it came from /u/LecheConCarnie. I know it came from a bottle that has been opened for 9 years. So that means... I'm not going to guess this easily.

Alright, so maybe I should go through my thought process on guessing this one.

Price: $92.95 (CAD) at the LCBO

Region: Highland

Abv: 43%

Colour: 2/5Y 8/8

Alright, it's a light yellow colour (see image above). Guessing that means no sherry influence, or very minimal sherry influence

Nose: Lemon, vanilla, oak, smoke, apple, butter, floral, grass

Not an Islay. The smoke is too light. I'd say Speyside. Yay, I narrowed it down to the largest region.

No sherry influence, so it's ex-bourbon cask. Narrowed it down again to 90% of all Scotches.

Taste: Caramel, lemon, rosemary, ginger, cinnamon, tangerine

Tasty. Like the spices in it. May have oxidized a little though. Reminds me of Glenrothes, yet doesn't taste bad, so it's not the select reserve.

Might be Balblair. I've never had one of them.

Finish: Smoke, anise, pepper, melon, orange, pear juice, apple

Don't think it's a Glenrothes anymore, it's too smokey. There's a little bit of peat in here, I think. Quite fruity as well.

Conclusion: Nice dram. Not too complex, yet had some interesting notes. It's around 40-43% I think, based on the mouthfeel and the light notes.

I'm kinda at a loss to figure it out. Until the smoke, I thought it might be Balblair or Glenrothes. Now... Maybe a nice blend? It was unique yet not strong, and had some different notes. So maybe it's a little older?

The oxidization could be throwing me off too. Yes, let's go with that.

Guess: Famous Grouse 18. 

Actually: Dalwhinnie 15 (with some oxidization)

76/100

Scotch review #318, Highland Review #53, Whisky Network Review #473

101 Whiskies to Try Before You Die review

Other Dalwhinnie Reviews:

Dalwhinnie 15

Dalwhinnie Distiller's Edition 1991



Well, you got the region right (I think) and it is 43%.  

It is Dalwhinnie 15 year.  

Honestly, I have no idea if this is supposed to be a "good scotch" or not.  The bottle was a gift that was opened once 9 years ago and then re-corked and hidden away.  



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.79   

Standard Deviation = 10.27

Skewness = -2.76466 

Kurtosis = 11.28042 

Median = 80

IQR = 9
