I realise all the whisky reviews I've done up to this point have been relatively favourable. For balance, here's a review of a whisky I don't like. Edradour 10. 40% alcohol.

Colour: Light amber

Nose: Floral. Almonds. Malty and briny. There's something else, something... rubbery and not particularly nice. Like you're nosing the whisky in a room full of tires.

Taste: There's something immediately offputting about this taste.  Something raw, like a young, sweet cooking sherry. Thankfully it swiftly fades into candied almonds, spicy apple, earthy peat and vanilla. Smoky.

Finish: Soapy and chemical. Thoroughly unpleasant. Has me reaching for my water glass.

-Taste: 56/75 

-Value: 9/15 

-Uniqueness 4/5

-Would I Buy Again? 1/5

-TOTAL: 70/100

Avoid. Best that can be said is it has a lovely thick and oily mouthfeel.



I totally get the soapy quality to this whisky... I've tried it a couple of times now and I get it in both the nose and finish; glad to see I'm not the only one.

I'm curious, however, if anyone has tried anything other than their 10 year? I know they're very small; do they even make other expressions?



They actually have a million and one other expressions. Anything older than 12-13 years isn't readily available though, it would seem.  Their distillery manager seems to be a real wine buff, and there's a pretty extensive range of wine finishes, port finishes, and the standard sort of bottlings.

They're also making 'Ballechin', which is just peated Edradour.  Haven't had it myself, but from everything I hear, it's pretty dire. One of my local whisky shops bought a load of it a while back and can't shift it regardless of price.



Hello Scotchit. Here is my first review. Actually, my first post on reddit as well. I?m definitely more of a lurker by nature, but this seemed like a fun thing to do. One of my coworkers recommended picking up Edradour 10. He had toured the distillery while on vacation; apparently it is the smallest in Scotland. That fact alone was enough to pique my curiosity enough to pick up a bottle. I?ve had several scotches before (I grew up playing bagpipes in a band, so was probably introduced to it at a younger age than many), but have never tried my hand at sitting down and really taking notes. Anyway, here it goes:

Edradour 10 Year Old, Highland single malt, ABV 43%

Color: light bronze or amber

Nose: Immediately upon opening the bottle, I am hit with a strong scent of apple. I can detect some pear and vanilla in the glass. Adding a drop or two of water reveals fresh bread or lightly toasted malt.

Taste: Sweet, fruit, cinnamon, with a fairly light body. Adding a drop or two of water and I can taste vanilla, melon, and honey. I?m not very familiar with sherry, but there may be some of that in here as well.

Finish: Relatively mild, fairly dry with a slight lingering burn.

There was nothing unpleasant about it at all, but it was also a fairly unremarkable scotch. I can?t remember what I actually paid for it, but after looking up prices online in my area, it seems a bit on the high side for what you get at $81.14 per 750 mL (after tax). I think the price definitely includes the novelty of being from the smallest  distillery in Scotland. Still, I would definitely not turn it down if offered a dram!

83/100



Ain't no thing. 





Review 4: Edradour 10

Hello Scotchit! Off to the smallest distillery in Scotland for my next review.  Edradour claim they produce as much whisky in a year as the big distilleries turn out each week.  Let?s hope their stuff is good quality then? It?s natural colour and bottled at 40%.

On to the review. Sl?inte mhath!

Appearance: Amber.  Impressive for a 10 year old with no caramel added.

Nose: Sherry, raisins, Horlicks, barley, some lemon cold remedy and mild citrus. After 10 minutes in the glass some light fruits, like overly ripe apples and pears, Weetabix, sponge cake, toffee, doughnuts and vanilla.  Malty!

Palate: Madeira cake, granola, vanilla, raisins, almonds, shortbread, toffee, milky tea, brioche, creamy butter, a little dry Oloroso and blackcurrant jam.  Slightly tangy.  Despite the obvious sherry on the nose, it doesn?t have much in the way of deep, rich flavours.  It?s creamy and smooth, but a bit watery.  Could really do with being bottled around 48%.

Finish: More of the same.  Cereal notes, Horlicks and a little hot chocolate.  It lingers.

Simple and refreshing.  This dram reminds me of a proper English afternoon tea, with lots of scones and cream.  It?s understated, and lacks a bit of depth, but has obvious quality.  That makes it a scotch for a different occasion and adds to the charm, in my opinion.  People have commented that this can be inconsistent, but I appear to have picked up a good bottle.  The low ABV lets it down. 81/100.



Edradour 10

ABV: 43%

Price: $54.84

Visual: Hint of orange over gold.

Nose: Rosey, peppermint malt, raw sugar and a hint of musty barrel. Apple cider vinegar, hint of pepper and orange zest. 

Palate: Licorice and malty, earthy, grass clippings. Lightly Sugared lemon peel. Powerful peppered fiery nose tingle. Brown sugar and balsamic vinegar.

Finish: Fiery, malty peppermint. More lemon zest and peppered shoe leather giving way to late rich apricots and apples.

Overall: 91/100

There are no downsides to this drink. The fire belies the ABV. It?s the best drink I have had outside of Islay. It?s everything you want in a Highland. There really is not much to say about it otherwise. It?s solid and delicious.



I just picked up a  bottle of this as well, big fan. I get a big chocolate note in the mid-palate, which I really liked. 

Anyway, nice review, thanks!



This is the Scotch I give to people who say they don't like Scotch - I tell them they don't like cheap Scotch.

They usually come back asking for more recommendations for their next bottle.

It is a great entry point to Scotch, as it is quite an accessible drink to new Scotch drinkers that has some of the rarer qualities and flavours without being  too harsh on the newbie. 



By way of a brief introduction, Edradour is a small Highland distillery that supposedly produces the smallest volume of spirit per year in Scotland. Not sure if that?s still true what with all the Kingsbarns and Wolfburns running around these days. Anyway, as their production is so limited, I was happy to find a bottle of their standard 10 year old locally for $60.

Edradour 10, 43%

Nose: mixed nuts, hazelnut, chestnut, walnut, toffee, dry, musty, mild oloroso sherry, dried apricots, faint polished oak, there?s a high rye/spicy bourbon quality to it

Taste: medium mouth feel; nuts, toffee, light sherry, slight mint, again somehow bourbon-esque

Finish: moderate with some bitter fruit, figs perhaps

Overall: 84/100. It?s a quality whisky. Some nice, unique flavors, good balance, decent complexity. The low strength holds it back a bit but it?s clearly a singular, well-made spirit.




Day 9 of the advent calendar review storm or whatever.  Really enjoying trying all of these drams that would otherwise be tough to find or I would be unlikely to purchase.  This one is an Edradour 10 year old (40%ABV), the standard bottling of Scotland's smallest distillery.

Nose:  Soft sherry with charred wood and a faint hint of pine needles.  Light fruits;  canteloupe, banana, watermelon, and pear.  Hay fields and a touch of something mossy and dirt-like.  Slightly farmy but not as much as I thought it would be coming into this.

Taste:  Not what I was expecting from the nose.  The entrance is actually pretty watermelony... but an underripe watermelon.  Honeydew in there too, surprisingly melon influenced.  Some moss and grassy malt and hints at vanilla wood too.  Time just makes this sweeter, wow!

Finish:  Relatively sherry-dominated, which I like.  More melony sherry with malty, damp wood and some sweet syrup.  There's a slight Mortlach beefyness to this, but no peat.  Much more interesting than I thought.  The finish is slightly cheesy but actually quite long for a 10 year old.  Tastes older than it is with a reasonable sweetness.

Final notes:  I was expecting a dud from the reviews I read, but this isn't awful by any stretch of the word.  I might not go rushing to buy a bottle but it's quite drinkable, especially after 10 minutes.  I also didn't find it to be terribly weak like I thought I would.  Overall, drinkable and a nice sherry tone to it.  Woodsy and mossy (or maybe moldy?) but plenty of sherry.  The mossy tones have really grown on me.  The finish is fairly well-developed for such a young whisky and I'm hard-pressed to grill this one like everyone else has... I find the 'off-tones' to be interesting additions to the dram.  Maybe I got a better bottling?  Who knows...

Final score:  88/100



Signatory actually owns the Edradour distillery!

It's kind of funny that they release OB's and "IB's" of Edradour, imo.



I've seen a lot of ragging on Edradour. I think the 10 is pretty decent whisky, personally. Really ought to review it sometime and make things "official" 

;-)



Hello Scotchit.

I'm slowly going through and enjoying samples from my finedrams.com order.  Next up is the Edradour 10 year old.  Edradour "between two rivers" Distillery  is known as Scotland's smallest traditional distillery and dates all the way bay to 1825.  This farm distillery is locate in central Perthshire in the Highland Region.   Much of their equipment can date back 150 years.  The distillery currently has one of the last open wort coolers left in Scotland. Let's see if this all makes an unique good tasting scotch.

Edradour 10 Year Old

40% abv, $50

Natural Color, Chill Filltered

I tasted this from a 5cL sample split into 2 separate sittings with a Glancairn glass.

Appearance: Dark Amber, slow tears.

Nose: I get strong honey from this, cooked apples, pineapple/citrus notes, earthy, light faint smoke 

Taste: Oily texture for 40 percent. Sour apple, cinnamon, vanilla caramel, light peppered nuts, minerally/earthy

Finish:  Medium to short in length. Tangy light oak, green apple is still there for me, on the dry side, honeyed oatmeal, light pepper, earthy notes. 

84/100

Overall, a unique good scotch.  On the sweet side for me, but I like it.  This really stands out for uniqueness in all the 10-12 year old scotches.  Would love to try the U.S. 43% version as I would hope this would improve the taste time durations through out; most notably the finish.   For its uniqueness I do recommend to try this before buying a whole bottle.  Although, samples of this in the US are really difficult to fine unless you have a crazy good whisky bar nearby.

Cheers Scotchit!



I like Scotch. I like fudge. Hopefully I like this Scotch and this fudge.

Edradour 10

Region: Highland

ABV: 40%

Nose: Floral, orange citrus, fruit-filled baked goods with really nice baking spices. Salted caramel chocolates. Toffee. Oak. Cherry cordials. 

Palate: Malty malty. Old un-emptied lawnmower bag. Sugary and peppery. More salty sweet truffles. 

Finish: A bitter with nice oak and dark chocolate. Hot peppermint and citrus. 

89/100

Edradour Hand Made Whisky Fudge 

Nose: Fudge.

Palate: Whisky fudge.

Finish: Fudge finish.

FUDGE/100

Another great one! A bit surprised, as the 40% had me worried, but this was rich and flavorful and didn't leave me wanting. Absolutely fantastic nose, great palate, respectable finish. 

The fudge is pretty decent for tinned fudge. It's very caramel-ey. It was a nice bite after I finished my dram.



It's DEFINITELY a sherry bomb. The issue is, I don't think it's available here in America (where I'm at). I got this bottle at a tour of the Edradour distillery when I was in Scotland a couple months ago. There, it ran me about ?55. 

I loved the bottle so much I special ordered it's brother, their Bourbon Cask Strength one, from Royal Mile Whiskies and had it shipped all the way from Scotland. Haven't opened that one yet, but I'm very excited to get try it.

Edit: Found it online. Here you go! Geez, it's pretty damn expensive, factoring in currency conversion AND shipping. But it's a very solid whisky.



Color: Gold

Nose: Heavy nose, loaded with Sweet Sherry, Honey and Apricot. Light Malt and Wood. I would suggest leaving the whisky opening up in the glass for at least 20 minutes. As I opened the (miniature) bottle for the first time there was a slightly unpleasant bitterness in the smell. I will take away a point for that. A day later during the second tasting that bitterness had gone but there is still some disagreeable element to the nose that I can?t quite put my fingers on. Or rather, my nose! Maybe it?s just overly sweet.

Taste:  The delivery is Oloroso sweet, nutty and syrupy with some Spices coming through. It?s different for sure and not entirely unpleasant but there is something about this whisky I just don?t quite like. It?s more like sweet fruit liquor really.

Finish: The finish is dry, slightly metallic and salty with Wood and Nuts and some hot Spices. Again, it?s not bad but I can?t say I like it very much.

Rating: 79  (out of 100)
Nose 19.5? Taste 20.5 ? Finish 19.5 ? Overall 19.5

General Remarks:  I added some water, that enhanced the Spices in the finish. This whisky accepts some water so I suggest trying it both ways.
Edradour is Scotland's smallest single malt whisky distillery and produces just 90,000 liters of whisky each year. It?s located in the Southern Highlands. It was only bottled as a Single Malt in 1986. Three employees operate the whole distillery.

Drinking Experience Neat: Different from your average Scotch Whisky!

Conclusion: It?s an unusual Single Malt. Quite complex really but I can?t say I really like the sum of the individual parts. It?s like a road that doesn?t seem to go anywhere. And during the whole process of nosing and tasting I couldn?t get rid of the feeling that something?s wrong with this spirit. It?s different enough to try out but I can?t really recommend it.



REVIEW #34: Edradour 10 year - 43% abv 

Nose: I?ve spent a lot of years trying to figure out what the aromas are in this whisky.  It?s murky and doesn?t reveal its secrets easily.  I spent a couple hours one night watching TV and just sniffing the glass.  Here?s what I?ve found: dark fruits, prunes, raisins, dark spices (I can?t figure out which ones), sugar coated almonds, oak, vanilla, sweetness, yellow cake mix, orange zest, maybe some overripe banana in the back

Taste: Big and powerful right away, murky, rum-like, toasted almonds, sweet, toffee, Werther?s Originals butterscotch candy?, Barley

Finish: The warmth spreads down to your belly but doesn?t hang around for very long.  The flavors, though? Spiced fruitcake, creme brulee, burnt sugar. These flavors stick around for upwards of 5-10 minutes for me.  Mouth-watering.  Makes me want to drink more.  

Score: 93/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: This was my first Scotch ever.  It?s the reason I started drinking alcoholic beverages. The bucketload of memories and good times associated with this whisky make my review completely biased and out of whack.  We?ve tasted a bit of Edradour after each tasting sessions just to see if we still preferred it over all others, and for the most part, we do.  We also believe there to be a very strong familiarity bias involved here, but we weren?t willing to do a double-blind taste test.  Nobody wants to find out that the whisky love of their life is a hag, so we didn?t open that door.  We?re having fun and we like Edradour, a lot.  The good news is that we?ve found a ton of great whiskies out there and will be expanding our collection beyond this single scotch.

