This is a review of Glenmorangie 18 bottled at 43%. The sample for this review came from a swap from a while back with a member who is no longer on the network.

?

N: Fresh. Rich heather honey, strawberry, floral, orange pound cake. Similar to the 10 but much richer and more pleasant. 

?

P: Fresh again. Honey and apple, lemon cake this time with some orange peel, vanilla.

?

F: Medium. A lot more pleasant than the 10 here. Honey, citrus, floral and a bit nutty.

?

Overall: Very nicely balanced and quite a bit more complex compared to the 10. The nose and finish in particular are much better with the notes being much clearer and overall just tastier. While you can definitely tell this is from the same family as the 10 it has really developed with the additional 8 years (eg. grass became flowers, light honey became rich heather honey etc.) while still preserving the same malty light character at its core.

?

Score: 84



Glenmorangie 18 Year Old      88

This not-so-?Extremely-Rare? 18yo has become one of my favorites, but I didn?t appreciate it the first time.  The reason?  My tastes have changed from seeking complexity to seeking simple pleasure and balance.  The casks haven?t imparted great woodiness/spiciness/bitterness?; rather, the maturation has purified and rounded out the spirit.  Plus it has a creamy nuttiness I crave.

Similar malts: Some Arrans: 14yo, Devil?s Punch Bowl III, and 15th anniversary. Glenfarclas 21 and maybe 17yo too.



Glenmorangie 18

$100, 43%abv

Big ups to jimvarney01 for the sample!  Apparently 30% of this malt is finished in Olorosso casks for three years; oh baby.

Nose:  Orange, vanilla, fresh lime juice, pineapple, sliced peaches pristine river water

Palate:  Just a wonderful mouthfeel.  Marzipan, orange cream, toffee, toasted oats, green apple, cardamom 

Finish:  Dry toasted oak, and tingly sugary citrus like Batavia Arrack 

87/100 This expression is Auchentoshan 21 with more fruit.  It?s a standard Elegant Dinner Party (where the only thing being murdered is good etiquette.) There is nothing spectacular, it?s just really pleasant and everything is where it needs to be.  I am very happy to have had the opportunity to try the 18 yet I won?t be purchasing a bottle for myself.  This is definitely a ?Gift Scotch,? the age will impress, the price is right, and you can?t help but enjoy it. 



Back again! My first 10 reviews were fairly standard offerings, but now I'll be getting into some more special bottles. Now I don't have anything incredibly rare or expensive, but these are the bottles that I find to be a little something more special.

Glenmorangie 18 'Extremely Rare' - 43% - $100

Appearance: Tan with some amber.

Nose: Smells wet. Nuts. Raisins, sweet apples, and other sweet fruits. 

Taste: More nuts. Some sherry, bitter oak, slightly tangy, some apples. Bitter citrus.

Finish: Citrus spice, slightly salty, long with some wood late.

Score: 87/100

Buy Again? Really, I don't think so. It's good, but I don't know if it's as good as it costs.

Yeah it's a bit pricey for what you get, but it is pretty darn good. It's subtle and complex, but lacks something definitive to remember. Side Note: presentation is really cool! The box and bottle are elegant, if a little over the top.

@review_bot

EDIT: Archived.



Interesting question. The only other 18 year old Scotch I own is JW Gold (review coming), which as a blend is hard to compare, I think. 

I'll have to make a point to try and grab another 18 year old single malt soon!







Glenmorangie 18 Year, 43%

Nose: Delicate woody spice. Orange, vanilla, melon.

Taste: Oaky. Raisins, marzipan, toffee, green apples, brown sugar sweetness.

Finish: Honey, fresh cut wood, citrus spice.

Has a very crisp taste. Well balanced but no wow factor. More or less what your would expect based on the 10 year but oakier and more refined. 80/100



Glenmorangie 18, 43%

I think the Original is a great everyday malt, I was disappointed in the Quinta Ruban. How does this one fare?

Nose: Pretty pedestrian. Honey, orange, mango, floral perfume, got a weird mustard note for a hot second. 

Taste: Wow, there was a LITTLE mango on the nose, but I wasn't expecting the gobs of it I got here. Also vanilla, yogurt, cream, toffee.

Finish: Yep... more mango. Also a bit nutty. 

Well, this was certainly different. If you enjoy a nice mango lassi when you go out for Indian, I'd encourage you to seek out this scotch. A good one for a mild summer night. 89/100



Got a sample of the Glenmo 18yo "Extremely Rare" expression. Unlike the standard 18yo 30% of this is finished for 3 years in Oloroso sherry casks. The whisky is bottled at 43% vol.

Nose:  Honey, Sherry, Flower nectar, Oak

Mouth: Very fruity, banana, cherry, oak

Finish: medium long, oak, fruity, papaya, a tiny tad smoke

Comments: I really like this one, very fruity! It's very easy and drinkable but the great fruitiness really stands out. If you like the standard 10yo (which i find a bit mediocre) you will adore this one.

89 points (price/value/etc not a factor) - A bottle goes for around 80? i think

Review of the Glenmo Sonnalta PX to follow soon

EDIT: Actually i think the "extremely rare" is the same as the "normal" 18yo, just a new packaging



Review # 119        

Glenmorangie 18  43%  Swap: Allumina - Thank you!

Color:  Amber +1, Apple Juice, Quick Medium Tears and Legs.

Nose:  Sweet, Malt, Citrus, Orange, Honey and Vanilla, Caramel, Bourbon Oak, Grapefruit, Orange Marmalade, Lemon Zest, Barley, Charcoal, Pear Fruit, Tree Bark.

Mouth Feel:  Mildly Oily, Slightly Warm Spiciness.

Taste:  Very Sweet, Orange Candy, Citrus Pith, Honey, Almond Paste, White Pepper, Hint of Mineral, Zinc, Chalk, Orange Seed, Chamomile.

Finish:  Sweet Honey, Zest and Pith Maple Syrup, Rosewater, Green Apple.

With Water:  Nose:  Honey out More, Almond, Tree Fruit, Orange Blossom, Floral hints, Mineral. 
Taste: More Syrup: Maple, Barley, Citrus Zest is back, Oak influence more subtle, Lemon Drop Candies, Chardonnay, Cream Soda.

Score:  Nose:  23,  Taste:  22,  Finish:  23,  Balance:  22,   Total: 90

Classic Glenmorangie citrus, deeper notes than the original.  A sweet whisky with more mineral and cask influence than the 10 with a  longer finish, very fruity.



I don't even remember what I sent _

I'm assuming farclas 25 is one if them 



Hi everyone, feeling a bit indulgent tonight so I wasted a bunch of time setting up a picture. Here is the Glenmorangie 18 for your viewing/reading pleasure!

Glenmorangie 18, 43% ABV. Highland. Price paid $85 USD

color: Burnished amber

Nose: Marmalade mixed with a ripe medley of citrus. Caramel... home made style from pure cane sugar in a pan. Nutty oak

Palate: Spicy bite on the tongue. Dull stale caramel. Marmalade and ghostly sherry. Bright, bitter citrus. Pressed nut oils, bitter wood.

Finish: Salty, long and heavy. Sweetness bears down in the back of my tongue and some tingling dominates the rest of my tongue. subtle mix of light and dark chocolates carries away the oak character. Very fun!

89/100



Archived. 

Orange and lemon fresh picked out of my orchard, ran out and picked these barefoot in ~20 degree weather for this stupid picture! Lindt 90% cocoa dark chocolate and Ghirardelli 60%, fresh from the factory here in northern California. Walnuts store bought :( I grew up on a walnut orchard I miss them old twisted trees.



You take nice photos and that knife looks cool.

I've had this dram twice and I found it fruity, sweet and creamy. It's very nice, but the Astar is better and cheaper.





