Glenmorangie 10 year ? 43% ABV, $30 

Nose: Sweet, floral, young heat, delicate balance. 

Taste: I get flowers in a meadow, then a slight malt, honeysuckle at 
the end.  Medium mouthfeel.

Finish: Cereal, fading sweetness, airy, medium length.

Good starter scotch to recommend for someone who hasn't had much exposure but refined enough for long time lovers. It?s very light and sweet with a medium complexity. Very fine scotch.

87/100



I had a slightly different experience. I didn't hate it, and it definitely grew on me, but I think out of the different bottles I've tried (fairly new to scotch), it was definitely my least favorite. 

Still drank it though!



I'm fairly new as well. What would you recommend that you've had so far?

I've read through the sidebar and tried some of the options, both single malt and blended. Just curious what other newer drinkers recommend



ABV: 43%

Price: $36

Distiller: Glenmorangie

"A ten-year-old single malt, Glenmorangie Original is produced by marrying the delicate spirit that emerges from Scotland's tallest stills, with first and second fill American white oak casks."

Eye: 
Pale honey with flecks of green

Nose:
Big floral and fruity notes come wafting out of the glass with malt coming up close behind. Honey paves the way for some banana nut muffin and a sweet natural tasting vanilla.

Taste:
Big rolling waves of tropical fruit, orchard fruit and malt surge out of the glass and coat the palate like a blanket. Some patches of honey and graham cracker are sewn in with a sweet buttery thread.

Feel:
Smooth and almost refreshing going down.

Finish:
Medium-long and filled with rich tropical fruit and malt.

Score:
90/100

Overall:
This is a mighty tasty whisky and among my favorites. It?s light, fruity and malty without being overly sweet and cloying. The variety of fruit and sweet notes help keep this dram balanced and interesting. There is a cool refreshing quality that, paired with the delightful flavor and aroma, make this a daily drinker that is never boring and always a welcome sight to see sitting in my glass.



Greetings Scotchit! Time for a review that will make everyone scratch their heads and say "You've done how many reviews and you haven't reviewed that?", thus calling into question any sort of expertise any of you may have mistakenly assigned to my reviews. Yes, it's Glenmorangie The Original (10 Years Old).

This is a sample from a bottle I bought my sister for her birthday, based purely on the reputation it has here. The price was pretty mid-range as far as Scotch goes, and my sister enjoyed it last night, so let's dive into this, perhaps the quintessential Highland malt.

Glenmorangie 10
Highland, 40% ABV, chill-filtered, E150, ?48 for 700ml

Nose: Lemons! Fruits and toasted sugar. Tart oranges. Sweet malt and a hint of berries (cranberry?).

That's quite nice, actually. Very tart and citrusy, but with no real off notes. It's a sweet, smooth and tart nose, neither too intense nor too weak to be satisfying. Perhaps a bit one-note, but still very well integrated. With time, the tart notes are somewhat subdued and the nose becomes sweeter.

Taste: Watery mouthfeel. Lemons and malt. Slight acrid bitterness. Honey and brown sugar. Vanilla and orange peel. 

Hmm. Shame, that. There's a constant bitter note ruining the palate here. Trying to peek behind it reveals more of the fruitiness that the nose promised, but I'm still not really enjoying this as much as I did the nose. It's a weird sort of bitterness too, really quite biting.

Finish: Medium-short length, light. More bitterness. Lemons and malt. Vanilla and honey. Orange peel.

And the bitterness sticks around, making this otherwise OK finish somewhat unpleasant. It's also a bit insubstantial, likely due to the chill-filtration and low ABV. 

Summary: The nose on this is pretty nice, and I probably would have enjoyed this much more if it had followed through on the promises the nose made. However, that bitterness is very much present, and I just can't get over it. If it was a silky smooth lemony dram, then I'd be all over this as a nice summer time drink, but like this, I just can't see myself buying more. I'm now a bit worried about the Ealanta I bought, but what's done is done and I still want to try it.

In summary: nose good, bitterness bad. 

Score: 77/100
Good, but bitter.

Buy Again? Not for myself, but probably a good gift for beginners who like sweet, fruity drinks. 



I hereby call into question all of your reviews! RIOT!

Seriously though, congrats man, we all have one like this we just haven't reviewed yet. For me it's Black Bottle or Chivas 12 (which will be reviewed by end of year). I'd recommend trying other Glenmorangie, or a cask strength if you can, as the malt suffers from a low Abv. and higher strength really makes it pop.



I have an Ealanta. Tried the Lasanta and QR, but haven't reviewed them. 

The next gaps are JW Black, HP12 and Glenlivet 12. 



Glenmorangie Original 80 proof

Color: light gold

Nose: light fruit, floral, citrus, honey.

Taste: light vanilla oak, orange peel marmalade, lemony malt with hints of light beer.

Finish: light

its light! good beginner malt, basic but nice.  I suggest using a large goblet to swirl and aerate, it opens up somewhat nicely.

77/100







Glenmorangie is a Highland distillery, where "The sixteen men of Tain" make Scotch on behalf of LVMH (Louis Vuitton Moet Hennessy), the luxury conglomerate who are also kind enough to make Ardbeg for us.

Glenmorangie 10

10 years old (obviously), bottled at 43%.

Nose - Honey, creamy vanilla (reminds me a bit of cream soda), clove, black pepper, orange zest. Sweet, simple, approachable, and easygoing, but pleasant. 

Palate - Honey and vanilla to start, picking up the oaky spices and some oranges as it develops. Again, simple, approachable, and easygoing. The orange note starts to become a bit too much like orange peel as it develops. Medium body, somewhat oily. Nicely full flavored for 43%.

Finish - Clove, black pepper, honey, vanilla, orange zest. Largely a continuation from the nose/palate. The orange note becomes a bit much like orange peel (somewhat bitter/kind of astringent). Spice notes are pretty nice, and linger for a while, though the orange peel note does too.

This has some nice stuff going for it, but that damn orange peel note gets in the way here (not zest, which is pleasant, but like peeling an orange and chewing the peel) - besides that I like this stuff pretty well. Without that, this would be a very solid introductory Scotch, and for a rather friendly (for single malt) price. It kind of leaves me thinking ?if only?? with this one, though.

60/100

bought a gift pack with the Original plus minis of the QR, Lasanta and Nectar D'or. original is almost gone now so i figured a review was in order!

Appearance: pale yellow straw, great staying power on the glass

Nose: honey, flowers, orange peel, dandelions, vanilla

Taste: pretty sure i appreciate this one more and more each time I have it. I love the light mouthfeel, and the way it lingers in the throat and on the tongue. the flavours I get are honey, banana, light sweet fruit, light medicinal alcohol, some woodiness

Finish: llingers with a sweet oaky taste, floral dandelion earthiness in the long run. 

Rating: 84/100

definitely a delicious highland offering. sadly it's still $68 here in Ontario :(



Glenmorangie 10 is one of the first bottles I ever bought when I was first getting into scotch. I purchased a gift set that had a 750ml bottle of original plus 3 minis of the 12-year expressions. Those have been sitting around for about 2.5 years now and i'm finally getting to them, since the Lasanta community review is coming up this week. When I first reviewed GLenmo10 way back in review #10, i scored it an 84. I'm first of all looking forward to seeing how my palate, preferences and standards have changed in those 2.5 years.  to get a true comparison, i haven't re-read that review before doing this one. 

Appearance: super pale like straw. I love an uncoloured scotch.

Nose: tons of fruit. Peach up front, plus some apple, pear, grassy and straw. Very light, very floral. Vanilla and oak. 

Taste: lots of fruit again - apples, apricots, pears, bananas... and some floral, grassy hints too, but less light than the nose suggested. Harsher mouthfeel and higher alcohol presence than you'd expect from 40%. Less balanced than I remember. 

Finish: short and woody. A little bitter. 

Score: 79/100

this is a nice dram, but not overly complex? tastes very much like a standard highland or speyside. I think my original 84 was a bit generous and I'd rate this a 79 today. I suppose oxidation could have occurred too, so take it with a grain of salt. 







To follow up on my independent bottling review, it's time for another basic review! Yay completing arbitrary lists to motivate one to enhance life through a set path exemplified by people who have come before you! Woo hoo!

Anyway, I was very lucky to trade with /u/theonetheycalljane (I have to stop myself from breaking into song whenever I say his name) for the Glenmorangie Original 10 year. Funny thing is this is my usual "oh-the-bar-has-nothing-else-I'll-order-this-one" Scotch, and yet, I've never been able to review it, probably due to too many Scotches (the irony, she burns).

It's also odd that my "go-to" Scotch is a Highland, given the flak I give the region all the time

Region: Highland

Price: $69.95 (CAD)

Abv: 40%

Colour: Post-It Note

Nose: Flowers, honey, mandarins, lime, grapefruit, peach, peach concentrate, faint rubbing alcohol, carrot

Very, very floral nose, which slowly goes very sweet, somewhat sour, and a little burning. It's always a surprise when you haven't had one of these in awhile, as it's like walking into a candle shop and getting the giggles from the smell. Or rubbing your face in a pile of pixie sticks, whichever way you want to spend your weekends, I won't judge.

Taste: Lime, sweet grass, light caramel, orange, ginger, honey, tarragon

If I ever have a lot of money, and I mean a lot of money, I may try marinating chicken in Glenmorange Original. And the reason I would do that isn't just so that Scotch lovers would burn me in effigy, it's because I swear it tastes the same as a Mexican orange-tequila recipe I have.

Though the burning in effigy thing is pretty awesome too.

Simple and too the point. This is sweet and there's some earthiness, and a little caramel to round it out. No muss, no fuss.

Finish: Mushroom, arugula, orange rind, melon, lime

More earth, less sweet, tons of arugula/pepper taste. Again, this Scotch doesn't bring you on an expensive tour of flavourtown, it brings you on a simple, basic tour of the major landmarks.

Conclusion: This is still a nice Scotch, even after breaking it down (reviewing tends to make me criticize some to the point of not liking them). It is sweet, it has some unique traits, and it doesn't lack on flavour. Is it cloyingly sweet? It can be. Does it stay pretty one note? Oh yeah, and that note is mostly lime/earth blend. I'd say this is a solid start, and I am happy to continue reviewing the other Glenmorangie's as I come upon them.

76/100

Scotch review #54, Highland Review #6



Probably helps out quite a bit. I still like this one, and compared to other Highland whisky at the entry level, I rated it pretty high.

It is surprising when I find out which basic/next level ones I haven't reviewed yet. 6 or 7 basic ones to go.



