ABV:  40%

Price: $28 (750ml)

Distiller: Glenlivet

Eye: 
Copper

Nose:
Very light nose with malt and vanilla making up the core of the aroma. Hints of light orchard fruit, citrus, honey, graham cracker and a sweet strawberry like sweetness make up the rest.

Taste:
Like the nose this is a very lightly flavored whisky. Malt and vanilla are again the major players with some grassy notes, honey, red licorice and some light orchard fruit rounding out the palate.

Balance, Body & Feel:
Decently balanced with a medium body and a small amount of burn on an otherwise light and easy texture.

Finish:
Wood, malt and an ambiguous sweetness hang around for a long time on a slightly dry finish.

Score:
83/100

Overall:
Despite thinking it's a shade boring I do indeed like it. It's always good to get back to the basics from time to time and if you need a decent bottle of scotch for an evening with your friends that won't break the bank then Glenlivet 12 will do fantastically. It's versatile in that it's tasty neat, holds up decently on the rocks and is cheap enough that you don't feel bad using it in a good cocktail; it makes a stunning Rob Roy.



It's funny that you mention that strawberry sweetness. I had never noticed it before, but I just tried a dram of The Glenlivet 12 IMMEDIATELY after the Ardbeg Uigeadail, and the strawberry scent was so overpowering.

It was sickly sweet aroma, almost exactly like a Port.  



TheWhiskeyJug's previous reviews:

Please report any issues to /u/FlockOnFire



The Glenlivet was the distiller of the first scotch I ever had, and remains one of my favorite distilleries even today.  I've reviewed a number of their offerings in the past, and over the weekend worked up this review roundup of the rest of what's available to me.  The 25 and 50 year are - at least for now - considered "not available"

@review_bot scotch Glenlivet

The Glenlivet 12 Year

Initial Impressions: Speyside apples

Price: Thanks /u/LondonCalling85 for this sample.  The bottle is $44.99 here

Nose: sweet stewed apples with sugar and cinnamon. A hint of cleaning chemicals, something you'd use to wash the kitchen countertops. Stewed apples fade to more tart Speyside green apples as you get closer. A little bit of new wood,  ginger with honey, and flowers (geraniums)

Taste: a mildly spicy entry, which jumps pretty quickly (1-2 sec) to a cinnamon alcohol burn. Malt and vanilla. But over it all from first entry till swallowing is fruit, a mixture of tart crisp apples and stewed pears.

Finish: burn fades swiftly, leaving behind an aftertaste of apples, cinnamon/sugar, apples, and apples. As I work my way down the dram, I've also found a bit of pepper here.

Perhaps it's just because I've spent a week hanging out at /r/bourbon, but at first blush this is better than I recall. It honestly hits all the right notes for me at this moment - flavorful, light, and balanced between sweetness and tart. It compares very favorably to the Nadurra 16 for those times when cask strength is not a necessity.

Score: 90/100

Would I buy it again? Coming in to this review and based on prior experiences I was fully prepared to say no. But based on this... I just might want to!

The Glenlivet 18 Year

Initial Impressions: less bright than the 12, the age difference is palpable

Price: $92.99 here, but this review is based on a sample from /u/Dramonaut rather than a full bottle

Nose: apples and alcohol, malt, and a floral scented cleaning product. Not finding the sweet or crisp apples; instead these are red apples, dry and tempered by old wood.

Mouthfeel: thick and creamy

Taste: super smooth initial entry, and alcohol burn doesn't arrive for five seconds or so. Sweet while you wait, and the sweetness stays through the burn. It's almost a pure brown sugar, but flavored by some fruit - apples or pears. Perhaps it could also be described as maple syrup. Some spice - such as pepper - and oak.

Finish: really what the taste wrote, it's sweet honey, a bit of burn in the throat, and a sweet fruity aftertaste that stays quite long and develops a hint of smoke at some points.

I've only had this once before, and this is not at all what I recall. Last time I may have had it on the rocks; that could be the difference. It's unlike the 15 and 21 in flavor profile, and is noticeably older than the 12 and 15 Nadurra in oakiness and in that it takes some time and effort to get to the scents and flavors. Another good scotch from Glenlivet - A-

Score: 90/100

Would I buy it again? The price is a bit steep, but it could happen.


Decided to circle back to a classic after trying so many different samples over the last few months. The Glenlivet 12 is a solid, entry-level pour with a very approachable profile. I picked up a handle for my friend?s gathering at $55, which works out to be just under $25 per 750ml, and at that price I don?t know of any scotches that are as good, but I?m always looking for suggestions.

?

Glenlivet 12yr Single Malt - 40%

?

Average score to date: 79

I?m giving this the same score as the Quinta Ruban, but they are vastly different drams. While the QR is a bit rich and earthy, this is clean and crisp. It?s a nice solid baseline scotch and I?m not looking forward to it losing the age statement since some of the quality is bound to go with it.

?

Would I rebuy a bottle? Maybe down the road ? right now I think I?d rather grab a Glenfiddich to compare.



I'm new to Scotch. I've only ever had The Glenlivet, but I love it far more than any other liquor that I've tried so far.

What do you mean when you say that it's losing it's age statement?



Mystery Sample Provided by /u/Des_Eras labeled as wild turkey X. Picked and poured by my wife who has been raving about Raising Cains(fast food chain from the Ohio?). I thought it was just about average but it has prepped my stomach ready for a night-long of drinking to come!        

? 

Color : Darker than a typical bourbon cask.              

Nose : Bourbon vanilla, apricot & green apples.      

Taste : Malt, vanilla, peach, dusty hay & slight vegetal notes.        

Finish : Short and unimpressive.    

?  

86 proof, bourbon cask hogshead, NAS, non-peated. One could say this is well integrated or that is lacks both oak influence and cask influence. I am the latter. I prefer my scotches to be extremely polarizing and like a drive-by shooting incident. Unfortunately this is the extreme opposite, almost like a stranded life boat in the middle of the Pacific.      

I think this is an entry level OB from the Glen-something distilleries. Glenlivet 12?      1/5  



Glenlivet 12 year old 80 proof

one of my firsts like most people. Came in a nice gift set for $30usd. It is a great introductory Scotch because it doesnt really offend. It is too mild for me now. It is a good summer scotch though, being light and fruity.

80/100



This was an interesting one to taste blind, it's so common and run of the mill that you never really pay it the attention it's due. A lot of guys guessed wrong here. 

Nose: Raspberry juice powder, oak, light spearmint, nutmeg, vanilla custard, gooseberry jam.

Palate: Wood, brown sugar, Butterscotch, mild salt toffee,  vanilla, cream, stewed fruit in custard.

Finish: Short, Stewed fruits and bitter wood, bit of vanilla at the end.

Rating - 82/100

While a very basic dram it's not so bad when you sit down and get to know it. Been a long time since I sat down and actually tasted it and for what it is it's a winner.   



No apples?

I get green apples and caramel sauce like a mofo from this. Like a more astringent Glenfarclas 15.



Glenlivet is among the best selling single malts in the world, and I believe #1 in the US. Though they go (in my opinion) for quantity over quality these days, back when George Smith founded the distillery it was regarded as the finest single malt around, so other distilleries tried to associate themselves with the Glenlivet name, which is why you?ll see old bottles with names like Longmorn-Glenlivet or Aberlour-Glenlivet on them. Also, it?s why you see it labeled as THE Glenlivet, after a ruling saying other producers could use the name Glenlivet, but only George Smith?s distillery could be called THE Glenlivet.

As for the current day version?

12 Years Old. 40% abv. Likely chill filtered and with e150.

Nose - Sweet, easy, and approachable. Honey, malt, vanilla, apples, ginger root, mild clove and black pepper notes. Seems like there?s a bit of sherry influence, but it definitely takes a backseat here, especially compared to a dusty 12 yo Glenlivet French Oak Finish I found.

Taste - Sweet and quite mild. Honey, vanilla and green apples to start off, picking up some of the spice notes - again, mild black pepper, ginger, and clove - as it develops. Light, but slightly oily feel. A bit boring, but not unpleasant.

Finish - Honey and mild spice, but then it starts to fall apart, turning in to a bitter, slightly burnt plasticky note, with a rather dry plywood note.

Everything was going along just fine until the finish. Other than that, this stuff is just ?fine?, kind of like JW Black, Glenfiddich 12, or anything else you might sip on if you want some Scotch in an airport bar. Not something I?d spend my own money on, as $40 can get me some very nice bourbon, and if I want Scotch I?ll reach for something just a bit more interesting, especially since Laphroaig 10 is just barely more expensive around me.

77/100



My first Speyside purchase. I've been drinking a lot of Islays, so hopefully this doesn't come across as too boring!

I sadly find it a little boring compared to Islays, but I tend to enjoy stronger flavoured foods/drinks anyway. definitely found it improved with water, which is interesting given the lower ABV to begin with.

Rating: 81/100



Hi everyone,

Got a large multi-review dump today! I realised just a minute ago, that I haven?t reviewed any Glenlivet on here, or Glenfiddich for that matter but we?ll move to them later maybe. So today I thought I?d share my thoughts on one of the worlds most recognised Scotch brands, The Glenlivet. 

The 12 is seen as a really good entry level and could well have been my first proper single malt, although it was actually Dufftown 12. The 18 can be really good value for money but generally I find Glenlivet an easy drinking whisky for the masses.

?


?

Glenlivet 12 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Fruit, chocolate, flowery, vanilla, caramel, quite acidic.

Taste: Peaches and cream, vanilla, plums, bit of apple, drying malt. Flowery and herbal notes too.

Finish: Short length. Flowery with lavender and drying malt.

Tasted this years ago and haven?t gone back since. Really my benchmark for whisky I don?t like and don?t want to go back to. My fianc?e thought vomit on the nose... Possibly a bad bottle?

56/100

?



Understanding your scoring system, I can't disagree with what you posted here. I've never found a Glenlivet that made me sit-up and take notice. More than any other single malt, Glenlivet personifies middle-of-the-road average. Only the 15 FO did I find even somewhat interesting. I also had a dram of the 12 (only malt available) at a restaurant while traveling two weeks ago that was pretty funky; I suspected poor storage and old tailings, but your notes make me think that maybe the 12 is having some Q/A issues

Frankly, as my "serve to guests" / mixer / mindless sipper budget single malt, I now keep the Glenmorangie 10 "Original" on my shelf. It's 38 bucks, easy going with a nice malt underpinning, but also aged in some pretty good ex-bourbon wood (much higher quality casks than whatever Glenlivet or Glenfiddich are using for their 12s).



Great review dump!

I haven't had the 25 year Glenlivet, yet, but the 21 year OB is one of my favorites.  Really seems to shine at that age.  It's not a flavor bomb, of course, but it has fantastic balance (IMO). 



Season's Greetings /r/Scotch! This is my 8th Scotch review, and this one came out of left field. I was raiding my uncle's bar this Xmas (as usual) and he told me to finish up his tiny bottle of Glenlivet 12 (or as he calls it, "That Avon whiskey"). Not wanting to pass up a chance at a review, I quickly jotted down some notes. I wish my wife had her camera ready, however since she didn't, I had to use a stock image.

I may have missed something, as this was reviewed during my family's typical Xmas, which was interrupted by the crown pork roast needing to be switch over from a malfunctioning oven to a BBQ as well as typical family drama, thus I may have missed some things.

Glenlivet 12

Region: Speyside

ABV: 40%

Price: $47.25 (CAD), however I was given the 50ml bottle for free

Colour: Goldenrod. Didn't seem too coloured to me, again I'm not too good at identifying colouring.

Nose: Apricots, marigolds, peach, grass, lime, cold air, marmalade. I can see why my uncle calls this scotch "Avon", as it was very perfumed. I'm able to handle the more perfumed scotches these days, and I think it's because I'm a fan of honey (which can have the floral taste). Or perhaps at the moment I really wanted a drink, however either way they are growing on me.

Taste: Oranges, honey, cloves, rose water, pretty things, light pepper. Like drinking up My Little Pony on a spring day when you're young and in love. The cynic in me wants so much to demand something in here that will yank my tastes buds down the street and body slam them onto a bed of nails, however I was able to control that strange boxing day urge and enjoy the taste of this is a nice aperitif scotch. I couldn't have more then 2 drams of it, but nice none the less.

Finish: dried cranberries, little smoke, melon, orange blossoms, cardamon. Hmmm... it tries to grab my attention at the end with smoke and cardamon sneaking in, however personally I think it's a little too late. The youth shows through quite a bit, and the finish has a shorter-than-I'd-like feel to it, however not as short as other whiskey's I've reviewed.

Conclusion: If My Little Pony had a Scotch, it'd be Glenlivet 12. Take that how you want, I don't mean it as derogatory or praise. The youth of this scotch shines through, and the low ABV is present as well. I think the flavours would be lost paired with any but the most subtle of food and would recommend drinking this neat as the water my wash away any sparkle it has. I spent a long time trying to discern if I was missing anything, finally coming to the conclusion that Glenlivet 12 is simple in that regard. I probably won't be purchasing a bottle in the near future, however I will be trying out older versions, leaning towards something above 43% ABV to see if the flavours are there and just being lost.

76/100



Like drinking up My Little Pony on a spring day when you're young and in love. 

Beautiful! This scotch will always hold a unique place in my collection because it was my first :-)



Good job rounding these up. Looking back, I stand by my score so far, though Oak Cross may be a little lower than I originally thought.

Also there is a community review I did for Springbank 10, which I gave 88/100



Thanks very much for the review. I have a bottle of this that I have been slower to finish than the others simply because it never really wowed me when I first tried it. You convinced me to give this one another go. 

I have to agree with your score on this and your comment on drinking it neat. I had the first few sips neat then added a few drops of water. It certainly seems more muted in flavor after that, but I am no expert there. 

Thanks again for the excuse to break out the bottle. 
