REVIEW #104: Glenfarclas 17 year - 43% abv - (RE-REVIEW)

Nose:  wisp of smoke, heavier than the 12yo, cinnamon, aromatic cedar, menthol, spent gunpowder getting stronger, ripened pear, buttered popcorn, dry oak, raisins, fennel, bread dough, dunnage warehouse funk, 

Taste: very buttery, creamy on the tongue, vanilla, sea salt, salt water taffy, dunnage warehouse fustiness (tiny bit), mown hay?, cherry cough drop

Finish: a touch of white pepper heat, that subtle vegetal note again, drying oak on the back of the tongue.  Dark chocolate and candied orange linger for quite a long time.

Score: 88/100 (no change)

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: It feels heavier than the 12yo, and I prefer that.  It?s a noticeable step away from the youth of the 10yo and 12yo and starts to get into oakier territory.  I just learned why the 15yo is so popular.  3% more abv and unchillfiltered, and it?s cheaper than this one.  (Sigh).




Great reviews!

It's called a horizontal, though.

A vertical would be a comparison of different vintages of the same age.

I just realized this recently...



I think you got that backwards. 

Wikipedia says vertical tastings sample multiple vintages from the same distillery/winery to emphasize the differences in age. 

Horizontal tastings sample the same vintage from multiple distilleries/wineries to emphasize differences in distillery/winery styles. 

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wine_tasting



Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wine_tasting

HelperBot_? v1.0 I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 4917



I have a scotch buying problem. There's just so much to try!

(quickly hides the 135 empty sample bottles he went through in 11 months...)  

Yeah, you should probably get some help.



Reviews #124-128 (25 year posted prior)

Hello everyone! I?ve got a soft-spot for Glenfarclas? I?d even say they?re probably my favorite distillery (Despite my obsession with peat). Glenfarclas offers an incredibly high quality, consistent product that is widely available and very reasonably priced (around 150 bucks for a 25 year old whisky!). At any rate, I?ve been working on a vertical for you all? unfortunately I?m missing the 15 year from my lineup because it is not available in the U.S.

I did this review of the course of a few days, there?s going to be some deviances in depth and process because I?m just not that consistent of a person, but I would like the reader to take one thing away: Glenfarclas produces a very consistent product and the whole range is a very unadaultered representation of how a spirit progressively changes as it ages, my notes might not show that though.

Here goes!

Glenfarclas 17, 43%, Speyside

*Nose: Very spicy sherry, spicier and more full of life than the 12 somehow. Rich cognac soaked oak, stewed spiced apples, plum, raisin bread.

Palate: Almost acutely edgy oak. Slightly bitter but mostly sweet, intermingled. Floral spiced caramel, earl grey tea with paprika, clove and ginger. Very full of life, exciting stuff.

Finish: Minty, clean. Bourbon soaked wood chips, touch of grassiness? and some heathery goodness. 

91/100

This is: Glenfarclas 17, my fifth Glenfarcli reviewed here. Glenfarclas means "the valley of the green grass," and the Speyside distillery that bears the name has been owned by the Grant family since 1865, the same year Lee surrendered to Grant (the American Ulysses S. not the Scottish John). ?

43% ABV, $100 ?

color: amber. ?

nose: sherry oak... Raisins and tannin, also ginger and dry leaves. ?

taste: rich & dry... A creamy mouth-feel yet somehow it's bitter and dry, with almond milk, cinnamon, oak, and unripe strawberries. ?

finish: Macallanish... Wood lacquer, raisins, blueberry, and more dry leaves. Too short. ?

conclusions: The most Macallan-like Glenfarclas I have tried. In fact I will tie it with Mac 18?at 86/100 ?

Farcli comparisons:  

12 - 82/100 ?

105?- 89/100  

Ferd in the Spey?- 84/100 ?

Nose: Luscious and sherry sweet.  It is as if I was reading from a Christmas cake recipe: Currents and raisins command the nose, mildly spicy with butterscotch undertones.  Toasted almonds, brown sugar, clove and a touch of cinnamon.  This is all soaked in orange oil.  Lastly, just a very small skiff of smoke that proved elusive.  This is a nose that grows more complex and rewards you if you let it sit in the glass for a while.

Taste: A soft and smooth arrival.  Sweet and slightly syrupy on the palate.  Strong mandarin orange notes with a pleasing nutty background.  Notes of baking chocolate and more cinnamon, clove and nutmeg.  A good balance of cask and spirit.  The quality sherry cask notes play nicely with a satisfying taste of malt, prairie grass and slight touch of salt.

Finish: The finish is bitter-sweet in nature, notes of chocolate covered cherries mixed pleasantly with malt and salt.  The oaky citrus flavors hold on from start to finish.

A satisfying whisky from start to finish, excellent on the nose and palate, finishing to a pleasurable end.  A good example of balance.  The cask does not reign supreme here, instead it is quite happy to share the spotlight with the Glenfarclas spirit contained within.  Not much headroom to add water, less is more in this case.

90/100



Appearance: 1.1, Burnished

Nose: Black forest cake, chocolate covered cherries, fresh mint, almost a bit of a curry spice note hiding in the background.

Taste: Tart cranberries on the arrival, blood orange, almost a hint of peppermint, warm wood and wood spice, big time citrus notes, some white pepper and dry tannins.

Finish: The blood orange rolls right into the finish with a lingering pepper on the tongue, and a hint of cooling mint. Medium/long in duration.

Notes: Thanks to /u/wuhantang for the sample. I tasted this side by side with the Glenfarclas 12, just to give me a point of reference. Compared to the 12, it is definitely richer on the dark fruit elements. Much of the aggressive spice in the 12 has mellowed significantly in the 17, which allows more of the citrus and stonefruit elements to come out. Depending on the price differential, I would say get this over the 12.

Score: 91/100



Much of the aggressive spice in the 12 has mellowed significantly in the 17, which allows more of the citrus and stonefruit elements to come out.

I won't argue that there is more fruit which I like, but I really miss that spice from the 12 year.  I find the 17 a bit too tame, but I do like it.  I bet the 15 year would be the sweet spot.  Too bad I can't get it in the US.  I've heard from many people it's the best in their core range. 



Good review. 

Have you tried the 15 ? I think it's the perfect balance.



I feel a need to preface this review with a few details.  Firstly, I love the IDEA of Glenfarclas.  Independent, Scottish Family owned for generations, natural colour, and supposedly a strong commitment to providing quality sherry cask matured single malts at reasonable prices.  Sounds great!  I?ve purchased 4 full sized bottles of Glenfarclas in my life (and I?ve got a mini of the 40 year old waiting for a special occasion).  The 10 year 105 cask strength was awesome, as was a 25 year old ex-bourbon cask I.B.  I was somewhat taken aback when I opened my bottle of Glenfarclas 12.  I felt it had terrible musty, putrid notes.  I figured the bottle I purchased was off.  I rated it the lowest I?ve rated a single malt and you can read my notes by following the link at the bottom of this review.  I wasn?t going to give up on Glenfarclas.  Everyone deserves a second chance, right?  So I dropped some of my hard earned money on a bottle of the 15.  Here?s what followed.

Glenfaclas 17

Thanks to /u/Devoz for hooking me up with this sample to test against my awful experience with the 15.  I was cruel enough to provide him with a sample of the 15 which I think he will confirm tastes rather awful.

Nose: A crisp medley of sherry notes and fall fruits.  Dry sherry, strawberries, baked red apples, apple crisp, oak, clove, dark chocolate, and sweet pear.  

Palate: Sherry, raisins, brown sugar, cinnamon, baked apples followed by light creamy notes of custard, coffee, and chocolate.  Even lighter apple juice.  Very nice balance of sherried richness and a lighter complexity.  More delicate than expected but certainly not detrimentally so.

Finish:  Vanilla, cinnamon, brown sugar, maple syrup, honey, mint, wood.

A rather impressive and complex expression.  I was expecting a heavier, less nuanced sherry experience but the crisp fruity notes underneath really compliment the experience.

43% abv.

87/100

Perhaps the difference between the 15 and 17 confirms that I did indeed receive a second (?) bad bottle?  Terrible luck?  I enjoy ?funky? scotch.  In fact, Springbank, Tobermory, Laphroaig? In all those cases the pungent notes I actually see as an asset.  In this case it just tastes bad.  I?ve enjoyed several of the Glenfarclas expressions I?ve had.  If you discount the 2 bad bottles, I?ve rated most of the others above average.  But after two bad experiences, I?m sad to say that it will take a lot for me to ever buy another Glenfarclas O.B. which is a damn shame given how good many of them have been.  

Other Glenfarclas reviews:

Glenfarclas 10 - 79/100

Glenfarclas 12 - 52/100

Glenfarclas 105 10 Year Old - 90/100

Glenfarclas 25 Cadenhead?s 1990-2015 - 90/100

Glenfarclas 27 SMWS 1.179 - 90/100



I felt it had terrible musty, putrid notes.

This is why I like it.



Perhaps the difference between the 15 and 17 confirms that I did indeed receive a second (?) bad bottle? 

I'd like to think it was mere bad luck, hopefully never to be repeated. My bottle of the 15 has some sharp sulfur and a strong taste of the peelings, i.e. skin not flesh, of a red apple after they've been left out to oxidize, which is something I also pick up in other Glenfarclas and for me is a distinctive signature of the distillery, but nothing rotten, moldy or like manure. Sorry about that.

Strangely, the only 2 scotches [knocks on wood] that I've ever had problems with the corks going bad, i.e. rotten, crumbly and they fell down into the bottle which had to be decanted as a result, were both Glenfarclas. But if your bottle had a bad cork surely you'd have noticed this, so that can't be the cause in your case.



Glenfarclas 17 Year ? 43%, $75

Nose: Sherry, dried apricots, malt, light astringency, honey.

Taste: Honey, malt, light sherry sweetness, lightly floral. Light mouthfeel.

Finish: Sherry malt and chocolate. Medium length. 

Notes: It?s very pleasant but too weak in my opinion. I can see this as an easy drinker but I?d personally like something with a little more to it. 

83/100



Glenfarclas makes some good whisky. The 105 is a favorite of mine, the 12 is a great bottle for $40, the 15 is rock solid, and the 21 showcases it age nicely without being overoaked. /u/TOModera was nice enough to swap me a sample of the 17, so let's see if Glenfarclas can keep the streak going!

Glenfarclas 17

Strength: 43%

Color: Gold. Surprisingly light for a 17 year old sherried scotch. 

Nose: A gorgeous and fruity sherried nose. Juicy strawberries and red plums. Sweet raisins and cranberries. The nose is sugary, more so than I expected. 

Palate: Sweet and tangy, with dark stone fruit and cocoa. The sherry influence is quite strong, and it has a little bit of a prickly mouthfeel. Spice and wood pick up after a few sips. 

Finish: Oaky tannins take over here, as I've come to expect with Glenfarclas scotches. It's not as oaky as the 21, but has plenty of wood notes. Decently long finish. Chocolatey as it fades away.  

Summary: Another lovely Glenfarclas. Their whole lineup is quite good. The 105 is the only one that has the punch I'm usually looking for when I go for a sherried scotch. This would be a good alternative to Glenfiddich 18 or Aberlour 18, since it has some nice sherry influence along with the oaky flavors that come from extra time in the barrel. 

Score: 89/100 

Scotch Review #49

Whisky Review #99

@review_bot scotch 'Glenfarclas'



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Glenfarclas reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



According to my scores, 105 (93) > 15 (90) > 17 (89) > 21 (88) > 12 (87). Sounds about right. The 12 is still a bit too young, 15 seems to be the peak. As it ages beyond that you're trading the sherry for more and more oak. 

And the 105 just kicks ass all around. 



Greetings Scotchit! Just working through my sample "collection" to get some reviews out there. I haven't got into the truly outlandish distilleries that I have samples of yet, for the sole reason that they happen to be in the back of my cupboard.

Regardless, this is a somewhat oddball release because the age statement has an odd number on it. *gasp* Yes, it is Glenfarclas 17. 

How is it? Let's find out!

Glenfarclas 17
Speyside, 43% ABV, chillfiltered?, E150?, 50ml sample

Nose: Sherry. Slightly boozy. Dried fruits. Spicy, nutmeg. Red apples. Toffee and apricots. Hints of cognac. 

A very traditional, but very nice sherried nose. Warm spices and sweet fruits throughout.

Taste: Decent mouthfeel. Sherry. Sweet fruits. Slightly bitter wood. Apricots. Spices (cinnamon, allspice, cloves). 

Again, a very sherried, but not surprising palate. Sidenote: I think I taste French oak influence as apricots, because it tends to not only be sherried whisky, but also fresh French oak casks that impart that flavour. 

Finish: Medium length. Spicy (cinnamon). Light bitterness. Sherry. Dried fruits. 

Sticks around for a while, but no new development here either. That's OK, though, because what's there is a very classic sherried nose.

Summary: This is a heavily sherried Glenfarclas - mostly European oak Oloroso casks as far as I can tell. It's good, it really is. I'm inclined to like Glenfarclas from the very beginning, what with their indie credibilities and all, but the whisky speaks for itself.

The fact is that they make really good sherried Scotch and at ridiculously good prices, too! Heck, I bought a litre of the delicious Glenfarclas 105 for under ?40 - that's crazy value for a cask strength sherried Scotch. 

So yeah, this is a good Glenfarclas too - it does nothing too out of the ordinary, but it's a bit sweeter than most Aberlours, which tend towards the spicy side of sherried Scotch.

Score: 83/100
Sherry done well.

Buy Again? Sure, if the price is right.



Sample from /u/t8ke.  Glenfarclas 17 - 43% ABV

Nose: Sweet, sherry, lemon zest, herbal, a bit of banana

Palate: Medium weight and very smooth. Berries, cherry, strawberry, powdered sugar, plum, vanilla, some oak

Finish: Nice and long. Oaky vanilla with a bit of spice and dark berries.

Score: 89/100

I really enjoyed this one.  Tasting it next to the 12 year, and its incredibly similar aside from the finish.  The finish goes on and on and gives this a solid notch over the 12.  I dig it.
