Review #70: Glenfarclas 25

Glenfarclas 25

Speyside, 43% ABV

Nose: Sherry, nutty oak, lemon and citrus, sweet and slightly smoky, honey, chocolate

Palate: Sherry, vanilla, butterscotch, cake frosting, honey, oak, orange, mint, spices, chocolate, fruity

Finish: Oily, dry, long, oak, some smoke, cocoa

92/100 Long time no review. Bought this one a while back and was saving it for a special occasion. Finally broke into it a couple of weeks ago and I'm impressed, if not slightly underwhelmed with it as a 25 year. Love the sweet sherry and cake notes, very approachable. Still manages to sneak a little smoke in along with some subtle dry, bitter and citrusy flavors. It's damn good but the jump in quality from the young 105 to the 25 year isn't much. That said, this is fairly affordable so if you can grab a bottle by all means, definitely a must try.

Upgrade me flair please



I don't think you're very much sorry at all!

The prescriptive agenda almost always has an aspect of social gatekeeping. In this role, arbitrary features of language are used to block social advancement, to put people in their place or to keep them there.

I know we're throwing pedantry around like nobody's business (it's the internet; why not), but even the BTQ webpage recognizes that it comes down to prescriptive / descriptive grammarianism, since the "non-standard" meaning of "prompting the question" has now entered common usage and may arguably be more frequent than its original meaning. 

All that said, you did get me: I didn't know there was an alternate usage to begging the question. Though in its given form, I would just use the phrase "circular logic" to describe the same phenomenon. 



REVIEW #95: Glenfarclas 25 year - 43% abv

Nose: Darker than the 21yo, apple cider, dark chocolate, raisins, prunes, really soaked fruitcake, bartlett pear, underripe/sour pineapple, anise, cinnamon, fennel, pink bubble gum (Big League Chew), pecan, dried orange peel, figs, mold, sweet/wet/dank cellar, dirt, oiled leather, spent gunpowder, pencil shavings, ginger, resinous, old mossy tree bark.  No off-notes.  Brilliant, mature, complex.

Taste:  Slow onset, very slow.  Turns prickly.  Relatively thin on the tongue.  Sweet toffee, salted caramel, burnt sugar / molasses, mellow oak, cooked pears, spice cake, raisins, milk chocolate covered candied orange slice, pecans again, roasted almonds. 

Finish: It?s long and drawn out and subtle as hell. The glowing ember is almost extinguished, but it shimmers with that low heat all the way down and hangs around at the back of your throat for a good bit of time.  Lingering fennel heat, sweet salted buttery toffee, brown sugar baked apples, cocoa powder, whole wheat crackers / cereal sweetness.

Score: 91/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Wow.  I?m sold.  Glenfarclas scores again.  Natural Color, Non-Chill Filtered (edit: can't confirm or deny that), good quality casks, no off notes, direct fired pot stills adding an interesting gunpowdery note throughout the range, privately owned, family-run, high quality, well-made whisky.  This bottle is outside my price range at the moment, but I?ll be making a short list for the wife to choose from for any occasions where she might think I deserve something special.  So glad I tried so many from this distillery.  I really got a good feel for their style. 




My Scotch buddy came back from Texas for a few weeks, so we coordinated schedules so we could go through more samples together.  A few of these are going to be repeats for me, but they were so good I wanted to make sure he tried them.  My goal was to introduce him to the wonderful world of vertical tastings.  It was a real eye-opening experience for me the first time I did it.  It really shows a distillery's character and the influence of oak over time.  

This batch covers Glenfarclas.  Next up will be GlenDronach and then Glengoyne.  

REVIEW #106: Glenfarclas 25 year - 43% abv - (RE-REVIEW)

Nose:  Heavy, full, Vanilla cream toffee candy, dry oak, leather, brazil nuts, burnt peanut brittle, almonds, clove, black pepper, nutmeg, spearmint cooling on the back of the nose, spent gunpowder (this mixes a lot with the cooling mint note), anise,  

Taste: Syrupy, thick, oily, mouth-coating, fantastic.  Dark, sweet, heavy, molasses, brandy, figs, prunes, raisins, dark rich chocolate, bittersweet, mouth watering.  Orange pith, cinnamon heat.  Black peppery oak.

Finish: drying oak, slow ember of fire slides down into your chest, lingering hazelnuts, toffee, dry cocoa.

Score: 92/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Love how thick and syrupy and dark this is.  Heavy, full, spiced, dried fruits, balanced, great mouth feel, awesome.




Yeah.  I've been thinking about that line in my reviews.  It doesn't really say enough.  

Maybe a motivation level works better



Great reviews!

It's called a horizontal, though.

A vertical would be a comparison of different vintages of the same age.

I just realized this recently...



I think you got that backwards. 

Wikipedia says vertical tastings sample multiple vintages from the same distillery/winery to emphasize the differences in age. 

Horizontal tastings sample the same vintage from multiple distilleries/wineries to emphasize differences in distillery/winery styles. 

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wine_tasting



Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wine_tasting

HelperBot_? v1.0 I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 4917



I have a scotch buying problem. There's just so much to try!

(quickly hides the 135 empty sample bottles he went through in 11 months...)  

Yeah, you should probably get some help.



Hi there scotchit! I trust you're all doing well on this sunday evening. I haven't been around much lately unfortunately, moving into the new house has sapped much of my free time. Guess I owe you all a good review then... so here is how my evening went.

Glenfarclas 25 year. 43% ABV. Speyside. $145.00 USD

Color: Amber +2

Nose: Spicy mint. Marmalade reduction. Mint transforms into a nutty citrus. Very inviting nose.

Palate: Heavy, quite a significant presence. Intensely sweet and salty. Mature oak and sherry begin to come out

Finish: Long, satisfying. Encompassing oak tangling with a subtle, ominous smoke presence. Sharp 90% cocoa dark chocolate. Lovely.

91/100



I'd say so, even just for the experience to try something so old. This is the second Whisky I've had now that's older than I am and that feels pretty darn special. 

If you're into sherry, it's definitely worth it.



This is the second Whisky I've had now that's older than I am and that feels pretty darn special.

Yeah, there's a very strange and reverent feeling that goes with drinking a whisky that's older than you are.



Nice review. Right to the point! I like it.

I had a try of the 15 year. It was nice, but really numbed my tongue.  If it wasn't for that I think I would have really enjoyed it.
How is the 25 for that?



I cannot wait until our winter (Aussie here) to open my bottle up. It's going to be a good winter, I can feel it. 

Thanks for the review and reminding me just how awesome this whisky is.



Well that's just going to get in the way of those gents' chess game, you scoundrel! Seriously, consider posting that pic over to /r/whiskyporn 

Such an ausipicous scotch with such a brief review, I'd love to hear your thoughts after spending more time with this bottle. 



Story time. So I head over to my local bottle shop one night before a party. Friend grabs some beers, ready to head out, when I spot this Glenfarclas sampler containing a full bottle of the 15, as well as two 50mL samples of the 21 and 25, all for just under $100. Given that the same store had the 15 for $107, I considered this a bargain and picked it up without a second thought.

Now it?s Saturday night, and for once I have no plans nor need to wake up early for church in the morning. The stars have aligned. Funkadelic?s spinning on the turntable, and I?m ready for my one-man voyage into the sherried cosmos of Glenfarclas.

Glenfarclas 25. Speyside Single Malt, aged 25 years in oak casks and sherry butts, bottled at 43% ABV. Non chill-filtered, no added colouring. Bottle price: $180 for 700mL.

Nose: Well this is surprising. The same rich sweetness as the 15, but the extra ten years is bringing up entirely different notes. Black grapes and fresh leather. Floral notes. Lady?s perfume.

Palate: Very dense texture, it almost feels heavy on the tongue. I was having trouble penetrating the incredibly complex flavour profile and picking out particular notes, so I looked up mrz1988?s review, and he sums up my feelings well: ?it is just one solid flavour that was tough for me to crack.? There?s fresh fruits, there?s spicy toasted desserts, and so much more. I love it, but I don?t understand it.

Finish: This is just wonderful. Strong oak character still, but not the dry oak that the 21 was. Extremely long and full-bodied, creamy finish.

I hadn?t had anything from Glenfarclas before this tasting set. I now like Glenfarclas. A lot.




This is yet again another bottle that I picked up while in CA for work. Wandering through a Costco (yes, I did pick up a bottle of Lagavulin and I will eventually review that one as well) I saw this 25 year Scotch for a very reasonable price. This was right when i was just getting into the whole whisky world and I didn't know much better other than "older must be better right?"

Glenfarclas 25 / 43% ABV

Neat in a glencairn

Region/Type: Speyside

Chill-Filtration: YES

Nose - Orange-ginger compote, hard apple cider mixed with an oaked chardonnay, light honey/cinnamon roasted almonds, faint wisp of sherry.

Taste - Very very faint peat smoke, sherry, vanilla/honey/cinnamon roasted almonds, light dark chocolate creamy bitterness.

Finish - Dry mouth coating dark chocolate bar with dried cherries and smoked almonds paired with a glass of sherry sweetness.

89/100

Purchased: May of 2015 / 750mL / ~$141 USD in CA

So this bottle confuses me, it's labelled as a "Highland Single Malt Scotch Whisky" but it's considered a Speyside? Anyway, this is the oldest bottle that I own and it was very reasonably priced. It's definitely a tasty Scotch and I have no regrets purchasing this bottle, but I guess I had higher expectations coming from a 25 year old Scotch. It's an ultra lightly peated (I think) Scotch that has a bit of sherry influence and has nice chocolate/malt/dark fruit notes to it. This is delicious, but it doesn't blow my mind.



Speyside is a region in the Scottish Highland along the river Spey.

Thanks for the review!



I don't believe Glenfarclas is peated at all. 

Glad you enjoyed!



The peat level changes because distillation (particularly at Glenfarclas) and maturation is inconsistent. Consistency is indeed what most distilleries strive for but there are so many variables that it's not easy.   

In terms of the barley, the peating level should be fairly consistent but it will differ form batch to batch.     

The stills are still direct fired at Glenfarclas so from distillation to distillation the spirit coming off the stills will have differences depending on how hot they get. The distiller then needs to choose the cut which again will result in differences to the distillate that goes into casks.   

Then the casks play a part on effecting the outcome, some casks hold peatiness and some reduce it. All of this combines to give serious differences.



very nice! I've got a sample of this at home that I'm looking forward to reviewing. 

level 1 tartan initiated!



Glenfarclas 25

Appearance: Amber +1

Nose: Rich and fruity up front, apricots, some citrus, honey, barley sugar.

Taste: Rich and smooth on the palate, chocolate, fudge, a really interesting strawberry jam note, confectionary, lots of wood spice, ginger, white pepper, a rum note. Some mild sherry lingering in the background, but quite subtle. Very complex.

Finish: Finishes with dark fruits and candied ginger. Long.

Notes: All I can say is YUM. I love the taste profile on this one; the strawberry jam note is one I have never encountered before. The complexity is very high, and there are so many flavours to discover here. A real treat.

Score: 92/100

?

Scores to Date: Min:66.0, Max:98.0, Avg:85.7, SD:5.3



Nice reviews.  It's good to see these three one right after the other.  

I like the Nadurra 16 year so much I am having a hard time trying to convince myself to take the plunge on the Nadurra Oloroso.  Your review is making me think about it, though.



Thank you to /u/throwboats for this sample. I was actually surprised to find out a pit of peat is used in the malt with this one. 

Paid: N/A

Distilled/Owned by: Glenfarclas 

Region: Highland

43% ABV

Aged For: 25 Years

Chill Filtered/Color Added? : No to both

Color: Amber

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn 

Nose: Apples, raisin, caramel and fudge. Light and fresh, vanilla, white grape jam.

Taste: Sherry and oak with just a hint of smoke and white pepper. Almond butter, ginger. Neither watery or thick.  

Finish: Smokey oak, butter, chocolate, of medium length and warmth.

Thoughts: A good complexity of flavor, but I guess I was hoping for something a bit more from something almost as old as myself. I still prefer the straight sherry bomb of the 105. 

Score: 83/100



I guess I was hoping for something a bit more from something almost as old as myself

This is exactly how I felt when I bought a bottle of Glenfarclas 25. 

It's damn good but it's not an insane bargain as the age-to-price ratio might have you believe. 



Glenfarclas 25 Year - 43%, $150 

Nose: Sour grapes, light malt, strong musty, leather, tobacco, strong sherry, tart figs, light date, raisin.  

Taste: Powerful sherry, oak spice, meaty sherry, dates, light malt, strong leather, tart. Light mouthfeel.  

Finish: The meaty holds and tartness increases, a light caramel sweetness comes up and becomes sour, slight malt at the very end. Medium length.  

Notes: Although there were a lot of good notes it all felt muted and a bit watered down. Other than that it was nice.  

83/100 
