Colour: Gold - darkened with age.

Nose: Russet apple, old pear, raisins, port, apple juice, white wine, something almost minty.

Palate: artificial strawberry or raspberry, cigar ash, wine, leather, subdued cinnamon, tomato sauce, subtle spice, brown sugar, baked apple pie.  Smooth, complex.

Finish: Cinnamon, sugar, long alcohol tingle, slight ashy/smokiness.

40.2%

My only other Glenfiddich experience is the 12, which I find decent.  This certainly shares some similarities, but is less bright and stingy in flavour.  Also, that cherry/strawberry/cough syrup quality in the 12 is nearly gone here, absorbed and in some ways replaced with a far more complex flavour.  This is quite nice and the palate is something I could spend a lot of time with.  Drinking this is definitely a subtle experience.  It's not hitting me over the head with any characteristics, but giving it a proper chance, I really like it.  It's smooth, refined, subtle and tasty.  The russet apple, ashy, cinnamon qualities would perhaps be best enjoyed after a brisk hike on a chilly Sunday afternoon in November.  Although I love plenty of young and NAS scotches, this seems like a fine example of what age can bring out in a whisky.

Wouldn't be at the top of my list to buy given what it costs in Ontario, but I do like it. 

abv is 40.2.

A solid 84/100 is what I give this.



These miniatures were on offer in my local supermarket? I bought them.. I drank them.. This is what I thought of them.

Glenfiddich 18

Not as sweet as the 15, longest of the finishes. Think I probably prefer the 15.



Glenfiddich 18 year - 43%, $75 

Nose: Very rich nose, blue cheese, spice, apricot compote, oak.

Taste: Apple malt, spice oak, dry sherry, slight dark chocolate. Light mouthfeel.

Finish: Spice and oak are powerful and leave dry. Short to medium length.

Notes: Shows no sign of age, just bolder flavors than the younger expressions. Also it?s not married any more than younger expressions just more robust. Smooth and flavorful saves it from being forgettable

81/100



Time to review the scotch that my dad got me for my birthday this past summer. It is my oldest bottle and one I have enjoyed many a dram from. Without further ado:

Glenfiddich 18

Speyside Single Malt

Age: 18 years

Strength: 43% ABV

Color: Bourbon brown.

Nose: Raisins and sherry sweetness are in the forefront, then the woody oak aromas take over. There's some vanilla notes as well as a little fruitiness.

Palate: Oak and vanilla dominate the palate. All sorts of delectable flavors follow: dark chocolate oranges, waffles with syrup, glazed pecans.

Body: Oily mouthfeel, medium bodied. Kind of thought it'd be a little fuller.

Finish: Medium long and smooth. The sweetness dies down and the oakiness lingers.

Summary: It's got a fantastic nose, and the palate truly delivers, though it's a bit delicate. The finish is very nice but quits a little sooner than I would hope for an 18 year old scotch. This is a wonderful scotch that would probably be damn near perfect at 46%. I love the way the aging is showcased in this dram, you can really tell that the extra time in the barrels took this whisky to the next level. 

Score: 92/100 (Excellent)       

Scotch Review #7

Whisky Review #8

Edit: Got the strength wrong. Changed 40% to 43% and edited comments about the strength. I'd still like it to have a little bit higher proof.



Thanks for the review!

I think Glenfiddich is underrated, especially the closer to cask strength and solera offerings.



Shit! You're right. That's what I get for being lazy and looking it up on Glenfiddich's website rather than checking my bottle. I have a 1-liter bottle since my dad got it in a duty-free shop.

To actually answer your question, I'm from Maryland.



Tried the 18 once, hated it. This was also the ~the time I swore Glenfiddich off. Since then, the 12 has really grown on me. Maybe I'll give this one another go.

How do you think this compares to the 12 (if you've had it)?



Thanks go out to /u/BourbonScotchWhiskey for the Glenfiddich 18 sample!

Per the usual, Glenfiddich 18 sample was tasted blind initially, with notes in italics added during the second (revealed) tasting if I found anything important. The Glenlivet 18 was NOT tasted blind.

?

Glenfiddich 18yr ? 40%

?

Glenlivet 18yr - 43%

?
Average score to date: 83

?

Yes ? it?s a tie, and if you?ve ever read NFL QB?s on Facebook, you know what they say about ties. These two are similar and yet different. The Fiddich is more flavorful, but has the downside of that fruit bitterness on the finish. The Livet is more crisp and clean, but on the other hand it?s not as complex. Both are fine malts, but neither is worth the $80 price tag considering other options in that price range. Unless you?re showing off, save $30 and grab either of the 15yr expressions if you just want an easy drinking, fruity scotch.



They are definitely very close! I favor the Glenlivet slightly, but neither are bad choices. 

Unless you're showing off

I'd like to see people buying whiskey like this instead of JW Blue to show off to their friends. At least they'd be getting good whisky!  



Glenfiddich 18 year old 86 proof,

the 12 and 15 never really did it for me.  The 18 is really where I think they did it right.  It's interesting to me that Scotch peaking doesn't have a set schedule.  I preferred the Laphroaig 15 over the 18.  Every whisky has their own bell curve.  This is why I've heard Macallan 18 is better than the 25 or 30.  After a point I think the whisky becomes too mellow.  This is another reason I think Johnnie Walker Blue misses it's mark.  They use 60 year old whisky which gives it its price but not awesome rich flavor like I love.  Food for thought.

91/100



Hi Scotchit! Glenfiddich is the giant in the industry having one of the biggest outputs of whisky per year. But: They are doing things quite well imo so I didn't hesitate to go for the

Glenfiddich 18

Speyside, 40%

Matured in Oloroso an Ex-Bourbon casks.

color: copper

nose: sweet apples, blood oranges, vanilla, herbs, touch of oak and cinnamon

taste: oak, sweet malt, almonds, honey, oranges, smooth sherry, dark berries

finish: not especially long, but delightful

Well rounded and nicely balanced. Pretty fruity and sweet. Good casks. Reasonably priced for a 18 yo, and doesn't get pricier every two months. Unfortunately only 40%: Come on Glenfiddich you could afford more!

87/100



Thanks.

What a bummer, around me the 'fiddich 18 is one of few malts whose price is quite stable...



Glenfiddich is the biggest selling single malt brand in the world. Owned by William Grant and Sons, the same people behind Balvenie, Grant?s (their blended whisky, in the familiarly shaped triangle bottle) and Monkey Shoulder (which is a blended malt). Kininvie used to be Wm. Grant?s third distillery, until 2010, when Ailsa Bay opened.

Glenfiddich has an easygoing, approachable Speyside style, which is likely one reason it?s the biggest selling single malt brand in the world. This version was matured in bourbon and Oloroso casks, married at least 3 months in oak tuns before bottling. Thanks the FineDrams for bringing the price on this one back to Earth.

40% abv. 18 years old. No statement about coloring or chill filtration, but it?s likely there.

Nose - Rich, inviting aroma. Nicely sherried, but with a very easygoing demeanor. Baklava, vanilla, honey, coffee, toasted walnuts, clove, allspice, nutmeg, coffee cake (not to be confused with the coffee note). The back label says cinnamon and spiced apples, and once I read that I started picking that up too. The sweet and earthy notes here combine in an interesting way.

Taste - Walnuts, coffee, coffee cake, honey, brown sugar, baklava, vanilla, raisins, apples, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg. Rather light and ?smooth?. Kind of like drinking a dessert pastry. Nicely balanced and complex, but I wish the flavors were bigger.

Finish - Dark chocolate, mild black pepper, nutmeg, honey, and creamy vanilla. Spice lingers the longest. As with everything else, pretty easygoing. A slightly astringent note comes in towards the end. The spice notes are kind of warm and pleasant.

My first pour of this had an awful finish - kind of sour, vinegary and astringent. This very much toned down over a few pours, but didn?t completely go away. This is nicely complex, pretty flavorful for 40%, and very easy to drink (as anticipated). It?s not going to wow a single malt aficionado, but I don?t think it?s meant for that. I do like it, and I?d recommend it at a lower price, but at $90-$100+ I just can?t. 

85/100



TIL: From Wikipedia 

Additives
E150A caramel colouring may be added to single malt Scotch whisky prior to bottling,[6][7] to give the whisky a more rich and well-aged appearance. No other additives are allowed in Scotch whisky. This contrasts with the rules governing Canadian whisky production, which allow the addition of other flavourings as well as caramel, and with the rules governing American whiskey, which do not allow additives in "straight" whisky. The use of the caramel additive must be disclosed when the whisky is sold in some jurisdictions, although not in Scotland itself.[6][7]



so i made a post about a company outing the other day: http://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/2petrz/companyorganized_scotch_tasting_oh_boy/

turned out better than i thought it would. so we went to the restaurant, and my boss said if i'm not happy with the guy's selections i can change things up. so i go to chat with the guy who picked the flight and who i talked to on the phone last night (see previous post for details). 

his plan was to start with bowmore 12, then go to Johnnie Gold, and finish with cragganmore 12. i tell him that's pretty much the opposite of whta he should do. he argues saying no you start with bold tastes. i give a wine tasting example, he still doesn't get it, i tell him to stop. i'm the customer and i'm going to tell him how the tasting is going to go. 

i change things up after he argues about pricing and set up a flight of Cragganmore 12, Talisker 10 followed by Johnnie Walker Green label (given those 2 are composite parts of Green, figured it would be a really cool experience). 

anyway, service was terrible, dinner took forever, so by the end we decided to cancel the scotch tasting at the restaurant altogether and i was given the company card to build a flight for everyone at the hotel bar instead. 

i chose a few drams and had some fun with it, telling the group about each one. i asked for input on each too and took notes. so, here they are!

Glenfiddich 18 - 40% ABV

Appearance:   amber orange

Nose: heavy olorosso  sherry.  Cherries. Berries. Malty. Plums.

Taste: sweet fruit. So much  sherry.  Plums. Nutty. Malty. 

Finish: delicious . Long and sweet. Surprised. Pleasantly. 

Rating: 89




/u/muaddib99's  reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Bold flavours first???? BOLD FLAVOURS FIRST!

Okay, that is by far the shittiest tasting I've ever heard of. That bartender deserves no money, no help, and I generally hope that he has to face a rough time in the future because he's poor at his job that eventually makes him realize that he's wrong.

Seriously, on what planet does "Bold Flavours First" make sense?



i know he's a  tool. 

he added an auto-gratuity, probably because he knew we were dissatisfied and wouldn't have given him anything. it was honestly one of the worst restaurant experiences of my life.



trust me, i wanted to. i've seen your reviews and called them to find out more too... they even had their monthly tasting night yesterday. 

told the boss from the start that we should go there.. she didn't want to cab everyone. :(

sounds like a lot of people are going to bed early tonight (last night endd at 2:30) so i might cab out there and go for round 2!



haha so true. already was the case actually. 

the marketing guy who was there with us said he wants to do a scotch tasting with his team next year sometime and asked if i would set up the menu and host it. fuck yes.



God that is the kind of boss I want to have/become.

also what an enormous glass of Oban! 



C&A Steak company. 

never go there. 



Hooray for milestones only I care about!

So, for those of you who were once noobs, like me, you know that you looked over the sidebar to find recommendations. Or at least, some of us did.

Well... I may have taken it a little bit farther. Not "I'm going to wear /u/texacer's face like a mask" too far, however that sorta "accountant" too far. I made a spreadsheet. And filled it with all the ones I hadn't reviewed yet.

And then made that a challenge. To myself. For no reason.

So here we are, years later, at the end of the Next Level Malts list, with a whisky that was good enough to be at my wedding, Glenfiddich 18.

So if that doesn't tell you my bias, I don't know what will. Yes, Glenfiddich 18 was at my wedding, and it was one of three of the first boozes to run out in the first hour (Patron Tequila and Tequila Rose being the other two).

My reviews for Patron Tequila and Tequila Rose will be in the future, over at /r/tequila.

Anyway, moving on...

Glenfiddich 18 is a double barrel reserved single malt. It's small batch as well, because marketers be marketing, yo. They use American oak and Spanish Oloroso wood in it's production.

Price: $109.95 (CAD) at the LCBO

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Colour: Dark stain brown

Nose: Grape, oak, raspberry, caramel, ginger

Surprisingly deep nose for a 40%. The sherry cask is evident, and while it doesn't quite marry with the American oak perfectly, I do enjoy nosing this.

Last time I had it was at a buddies 30th birthday, sitting over a roaring fire, staring in the lake.

So again, I'm biased as fuck. That said, I can identify that the nose isn't anything 'that' special. It's special like you and I; in that mundane way, and only to some people.

Taste: Strawberry, oak, mace, butter, pear, basil

If you aren't the biggest sherry fan, or haven't had many sherried whiskies, then I'd recommend this one. It's spicy, and the fruit isn't over powering.

Not to mention the oak can come up as vanilla for some people, so it almost has a pie like flavour. And pie is good.

That said, the low Abv does hurt this one. There is a little bit of loss of flavour, and it doesn't quite hit a complexity I'd want.

Finish: Grape, white chocolate, vanilla, woody, licorice, mangosteen, currant

Sweet, though not too sweet, with more oak influence on the finish. The finish is really where I enjoy this more than the other Glenfiddich core expressions (let's leave the 21 year out of this, shall we?)

Conclusion: So there you have it. I enjoy the Glenfiddich 18 mostly for the finish and for the really great moments I've had while sipping it. 

The nose is simple yet works, the taste is nice though harmed by the low Abv., and the Finish is the best part, yet would be epic at a higher Abv. It mixes together two casks well, though not as well as other distilleries.

All in all, I like it, so it gets some bonus points. And it's a nice way to finish off the Next Level malts.

Now to go broke finishing the Ascendant malts.

80/100

Scotch review #248, Speyside review #76, Whisky Network review #378

101 Whiskies to try before you die review #48

1001 Whiskies to taste before you die review #190

Other Glenfiddich reviews:

