Sample from /u/t8ke.  Glenfarclas 105 10 year.  My understanding is that most Glenfarclas 105 is released with no age statement.  The early releases were all 8 year old, the new ones probably a bit younger but who knows.  So the 10 year old labeled ones are quite unique.

Nose: Powerful sherry, oak, ethanol, powdered sugar, and caramel.  You can tell this is going to be a big whisky already.

Palate: Rich, thick, huuuuge.  This is the very definition of sherry monster, in such a good way.  I get some blackberries, a bit of apple, plums, and sweet cake.

Finish: Long, long, long and warm. Earth, sherry, more plums, and some spice.  Maybe cinnamon and nutmeg?

Score: 91/100

I need to find a bottle of this.  Fantastic stuff.  Delicious and complex all at the same time.  Hell yes.



Nice review!

Did you know that there's even a 20- and 40-y/o edition of this as well?



Glenfarclas 105

(NAS, 60%, ~$107 CAD)

?

Interesting to learn that the ?105? is a reference to the old British proofing system, where proof was equivalent to roughly 1.75 times the ABV. While nowadays 60% would equate to 120 proof, under the old ways it would have been considered 105.

?

Nose: Mixed berry jam, milk chocolate, wet leaves, peanut butter, raisins, vanilla, hint of oak

Taste: Strawberry, oak, orange peel, blueberry, cinnamon, raisins, vanilla cake, red chili peppers, hint of milk chocolate

Finish: Red chili peppers, bitter oak, vanilla, hint of cherry

?

Youthful sherry nose here, full of  jammy fruits, along with some mustier notes and a bit of nuttiness. The texture is thick and creamy, again pack full of fruits, but found some new elements as well in a hint of bitterness (from the orange peel) and a heap of spicy heat. A bitter woody turn on the finish, the fruits are subdued now but a lingering hint of cherry persists. The heat continues to build here and really is my only criticism as I felt it out of balance with the rest, ultimately detracting from the overall experience. 

There are a lot of positives for this one. Strong flavours and texture, as it?s one of the very few in the Glenfarclas lineup that is non-chill filtered, and only watered down to 60% Decent price point as well.

In terms of easily accessible cask strength sherried whiskies, I'd give the slight edge for my preferences to the Aberlour A'Bunadh. It almost pains me to say this (being such a huge fan of Glendronach) but I enjoyed both slightly more than the most recent batches of Glendronach Cask Strength (batch 4 and 5 at least). Of course, while the late Macallan CS beats out all 3 and Glendronach single casks are still a notch above that (read: among the greatest of all time), those aren?t exactly in the same price bracket anymore so comparisons to those bottlings aren?t exactly the most helpful here. All that to say, a decent sherried dram in the end.

?

86/100



Jeez I need to move to Europe... Last I got a bottle it took like 3 weeks of contacting the vendor, the distributor, and a half a dozen middlemen to get one special order in this stupid Commonwealth state.  After all said and done it cost $86, but normally I wouldn't had to buy a minimum of 6 bottles.

And now o just checked, it's not even available anymore.  Just the 21 yr for $110 and 40yr for $530



https://drankdozijn.nl/artikel/fles-glenfarclas-105-single-malt-1ltr

2 liter bottles for ?59,95... 



You can trust bloggers, retailers, and anonymous online commenters (us!) to call any high-proof scotch "cask strength." See Cairdeas, Oogy, Corry.

But you can trust sellers to get it right on the label.



Mystery sample consumed together with /u/mikeczyz. Tasting notes messaged to /u/HawkI84 for reveal.
?   

Color :   

Nose : Sherry, sulfur, raspberries, papaya, date juice, rotting cantaloupe, apricots, burnt brown sugar & burnt toast.   

Taste : Rich sherry, dried figs, raisins, sweet pastry, brown sugar, dark chocolate, maple syrup, wood chips, leather & banana.  The profile is intensely sweet, almost like an adulterated rum.    

Finish : Rich thick heavy mouth-feel. It finishes hot with a burn.    

?  

Guess : 120-125 proof, 6-8 Years, Aberlour A'bunadh?             

Reveal : Glenfarclas 105 CS 120 Proof    

Conclusion : "This needs more bass" -mikeczyz 2/5  



congrats on hitting 300! i knew you were getting close so i wrote a script a while back using the reddit API that pulled all your reviews from your post history and did a word count. i dumped those into the same thing i use to make the word clouds for the community reviews.

300 Goldfish reviews in word cloud form



300 mystery reviews in 13 months

That's dedication! Love it



300? Wow. Someday I'll be that cool. 

Congratulations, and great review! 



Hah, when I was at a Speyside tasting night I was served an A'bunadh and guessed Glenfarclas 105.

I really have to do a SBS at one point in the future.



It looks like you're trying to mention other users, which only works if it's done in the comments like this (otherwise they don't receive a notification): 

/u/mikeczyz

/u/HawkI84

I'm a bot. Bleep. Bloop. | Visit /r/mentionhelper for discussion/feedback | Want to be left alone? Reply to this message with "stop"



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  Lets just get down to it:  

Glenfarclas 105 Cask Strength 60%

very good. as far as I'm concerned, this is the one to get.  yes I think pretty much all Glenfarclas is good stuff, but I'm a whore for Cask Strength.  the complexity, richness and subtlety is great in their malts, but it doesnt hide at all in this stuff.  yum. 

95/100




Yeah, I'm considering revisiting some old favs myself. Springbank 10 is a the top of the list.  

While I gotcha. I need a tartan upgrade :)



not stupid, I was going to mention it but I got lazy this morning.

105 is the proof.  60%abv is how much alchohol by volume there is in it. 

in America we double the percentage to get our proof but in the UK they do not.  They use some effed up equation, which is why most Scotch is usually just labeled with the %

see my write up here:  LINK



:)

more here



Glenfarclas 105 Cask Strength

(Well, not the 20 yo as in the picture but I think it wasn't meant to be the 20 yo anyway for a community review...)

Speyside, 60%

color: bronze

nose: honey, stollen, sherry, oak, raisins, a few drops of water release banana, leather, roasted apples

taste: spices, sherry, mocha praline, hint of oak, candied fruit, marzipan, sulphur

finish: warming, long

Bears plenty of water. Tastewise a bit sulphury and dry for me.

82/100



Sample received via /r/Scotchswap on reddit from /u/bieliebielie (Thanks!)

Now that I?m done writing about my Islay trip I have a good deal of samples and notes that need to get written down. This one was received as part of a swap I did last month. It?s one of those whiskies that is very iconic, and everyone talks about/recommends, but I?ve never really gotten around to tasting it.

It?s a ?cask strength? (the batches are all bottled at exactly 60%, so really just high ABV) sherry bomb from Glenfarclas. I don?t really like their profile all that much (although I?ve really liked some of their very matured expressions), but they really do make good quality stuff and are usually fairly priced as well, so I was still very excited to try this one.

Aged 10 years. 60% ABV. No Colourant added and non-chill filtered.

Nose: Very jammy. Wet leaves. Sandalwood. Light fruit syrup. Peanut brittle. Raisins. Ginger. Sharp woodspice. With water a huge cinnamon not develops along with a lot more raitins.

Palate: Very oily. Thick jam. Woodglue. Bitter olives. Cinnamon. With water the bitter notes become more pronounced, along with some stronger sherry tastes and spices.

Finish: Long. Cinnamon. Bitter wood. Thick, oily fruits and slight dry, nutty sherry flair at the end.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: No (purely a matter of personal taste though)

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 4/5

It still has that funky Glenfarclas note to it, but I have to give credit where credit?s due, the high ABV really gives a huge flavour delivery with a lot of really intense sherry notes. Fantastic stuff and really affordable too.

Reviewed in my blog:
https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2016/07/25/glenfarclas-105/



We can try to dig up the source if anyone really cares, but the scoop on the always-60% cask strength is supposed to be that they vat each batch to hit that that number, presumably by batching whatever over-60% stuff they got on hand, then then proofing down with some under-60% stuff until they hit that target. (Go algebra!)

So, the always-60% cask strength really is cask strength.

So the story goes.



It's a somewhat damaged specimen from the  Hamar Laghdad Formation in Morocco. It lived around the Devonian period and this species had relatively large, curved eyes.

Trilobite eyes are interesting because they used calcite lenses. I also have an undamaged Trilobite from the very earliest trilobite containing layers of the Burgess shale, but it's about the size of a fingernail.



Glenfarclas 105

An almost cask strength Scotch ? this is named for the proof that 60% gets in the UK.

60% abv (from the dept. of redundancy dept.)

Nose - Raisins, honey, walnuts, clove, vanilla, allspice, nutmeg, cinnamon, and raspberry. Very nice ?classic? heavily sherried nose. More balanced than many others though, in that the fruit doesn?t overwhelm the other notes. 

Taste - Starts on honey, vanilla and berries, getting spicier ? nutmeg, allspice and black pepper - and tangier (according to spellcheck that?s a word) on the development with a mexican chocolate note.

Finish - Spice lingers towards the back of the palate ?with lots of ginger, cinnamon, black pepper ? with nutmeg, vanilla and a honeyed berry note. Let it go long enough and it becomes just honey and berries.

Very nice. This has been on my to try list for almost 2 years, if it was available within an hour of where I live I probably would have got some by now. This is a very nice, powerful, full flavored sherry beast. I really like the balance and complexity this one has.

91/100



Hey thanks for the reviews!  Nice Job.  My notes for these are similar except for the prosciutto/cured meat note in the Balvenie.  I wasn't getting anything like that.  

Now I have to stop being lazy and review the samples you sent.  Looking forward to them!



GLENFARCLAS VERTICAL! Very excited for this. I was going to wait till I get the 15yr in a swap but none of my potential swaps have it on the menu and I needed to empty some bottles for secret santa :P I picked up the 105 in Calgary airport this past summer and received the drams in 2 in-person swaps earlier this year! Big thanks to my Canadian compadres, /u/KaptianKrush for the Glenfarclas 12 yr & /u/TOModera for the 17. Let's do this thing!

Glenfarclas tends to get generally positive reviews notwithstanding some major dissidents. I'm a fan but not a fanboy. Still hoping to try the 15 to see how it measures up!

edit: @review_bot scotch



Hi everyone,

A big Sherried beast today. Glenfarlcas 105. Glenfarclas, of course, is the traditional, direct firing, Sherry cask maturing, independent distillery, thinking about the long term. Great age statement range, with the older stuff at reasonable prices still.

I wouldn?t say I?m a huge fan of Glenfarclas, as I tend to prefer Glendronach but I?ve tasted quite a few now and they?ve definitely got a different style.

I?m visiting the distillery later in May and doing the Generations tasting, which will be epic. Really looking forward to it.

?

Oh, this is the high strength/cask strength version that has appeared as an NAS and with an age statement of 10 years. This one was one of the latter.

?

Glenfarclas 105 10 year old 60%

Colour: Dark Amber

Body: Full

Nose: Sweet sherry and sharp alcohol, raisin, date, sweet syrup and thick honey, a little clove.

Water: Still quite sharp. More clove with dark and milk chocolate coming out. Christmas cake with spice. A 'green' oaky note.

Taste: Sharp, assertive, very sweet, loads of sherry and brown sugar, alcohol taking over, then receding with drying sweetness and lots of oaky spice.

Water: More soft and a little creamy, still quite strong spicy clove and oak.

Finish: Long length. Sweet brown sugar and sherry.

Water: Rough oak spice.

Wahh! What a beast. Unbalanced but an honest, straightforward dram. Sherry and spirit influence a little inseperable. I think I prefer Aberlour A?Bunadh in the end as something a little less harsh.

69/100

?

Thanks for reading!

Review #309



My understanding is the age statement was phased out in 2014. However, there's a fair amount of 105 still sitting on shelves from 2014 (and earlier) so you'll still run across to 10YO version.

However, I could be wrong (getting the bottling date off the review bottle would be interesting).



I'm in Indianapolis, Indiana and the 10 year old can be found at 4 places off the top of my head.  Possibly doesn't sell as well due to very close pricing to the 12?  Not sure.

Edit:  just occurred to me u meant 10 year old 105.  Also still on shelves here in Indy in a few different places, but I'm hearing once it's gone the NAS is coming in



Interesting review. What is the bottling date for this (back below label, should be top number sequence. 

My experience is that 2009-2012 bottlings (with 10YO age statement) are outstanding. That said, I've acquired a pretty big taste for Glenfarclas house style so it might just be that's what I like (I like big dirty Sherry bombs). What I found noticeable in those bottlings (of which I own four) is a fairly substantial peat and coal ash presence complete with a fairly medicinal nose (almost Lagavulin 16 like) when at full ABV. I also found the examples I have not terribly sweet.



I'm afraid I tasted this in a local pub and don't own the bottle.

That's interesting, I didn't think Glenfarclas used any peat at all.



So, for those of you not on /r/worldwhisky, a quick refresher: SHAME ON YOU!

Wait, no, that's not what I meant at all. Well, what I meant to write. Too bad I don't edit these.

Anyway, what I meant to say is: This year, for Secret Santa Swap, I requested mystery drams of whiskies I've never reviewed. And /u/muaddib99 stepped up to the plate and hit Santa with a bat (I think that's how it works, I'm not 100% on Xmas or Baseball rules).

So, the first two were Canadian drams, of which I scored 1.5/2. How the 0.5? I guessed the right distillery.

He sent me hints as well, so this is this dram's hint:

3: So this one is kind of fun, as the sample bottle you're holding now came to me via a swap with you! In fact, the scotch inside this bottle is from the same distillery as the one you sent to me. Guess it's come full circle. You have a lot of reviews from this distillery, but I was thankful to see you hadn't done this one yet!

Well, given some sleuthing, I was able to deduce what dram this may be, however I still had to drink it (oh darn my life is tough) to be sure.

So, let's see if I'm write, shall we?

Colour: Light gold/brown

Nose: Almond, marmalade, brown sugar, cherry, fruit punch, peach, floral, tobacco

Strong nose on this. It's definitely cask strength, and I give it a little more time to air out than the last two.

Definitely sherried as well. There's less spice, but more earthiness and red fruit notes.

Pretty sure my guess was right.

Taste: Cherry, peach, coffee, wood, lime, treacle, strawberry tart, nutmeg

Big cherry taste. Almost as strong as some other Sherry Bombs I've had, yet not as spicy or burny or any other adjective ending in y.

Has a really nice strawberry tart flavour to it that I love at this time of year. Love strawberry tarts. And that's part of why I'm not in shape.

Finish: Earthy, sour grape, strawberry, Red Jell-O, smoke, little cinnamon

Big earth note at first when I sip on this (yes, it's sherried), and a little sour. Eventually have the spices I've been searching for in it at the very end, though not as much as I like out of my sherry bombs.

Really nice, smooth finish though. Very drinkable, nice to sip on, and no alcohol burn either. Well made dram.

Conclusion: This is a nice, cask strength, sherried dram. I miss some of the spicier notes from other sherry drams, however... well, it's just really well put together, balanced, just tart/acidic enough with tons of sweet notes and a little earth. I'd probably buy a bottle, and I may have a sample kicking about waiting for me as well.

83/100

Guess: Glenfarclas 105

Actually: Glenfarclas 105

Scotch review #223, Speyside #64, Whisky Network review #329

Other Glenfarclas reviews:

Glenfarclas 10

Glenfarclas 12

Glenfarclas 15

Glenfarclas 17

Glenfarclas 21

Glenfarclas 21 Re-review

Glenfarclas 25



nailed it. 

i figured the hints plus the obvious cask strength sherry would make it pretty obvious. well done again. 2.5/3



Liking this (and Glenfarclas in general) less than I used to, not quite sure why. Something winey or oaky... Much prefer the a'Bunadh.

Nice review as always.



Current Whisky Network Average = 79.43

Standard Deviation = 8.03

Skewness = -2.01097

Kurtosis = 6.92788
