



Glenmorangie Astar        81

Definitely needs water: ethanol is everywhere, moreso than usual for good cask strength whiskies.  For me, getting it below 50% is essential.  Whatever volume you pour, add 1/6 that volume of water.

The Astar acquired a large fanbase, especially on this forum. (Also seen here)  How to phrase this nicely? You?d probably like this more if your tongue can overlook some brash alcohol burn and you also don?t mind some harsh, ?young? tones.  If that describes you, then I?m kind of jealous.  More niceness: It was great to see a major brand finally release something widely at high proof, and within budget.  Probably it was many drinkers? first encounter with the big flavors of high ABV, a kind of bourbon-bomb to answer the A?bunadh sherry-bomb. At least, these are my best explanations for the frequently high ratings.
What I like best about the Astar is Glenmorangie?s innovation in craft by controlling the supply chain; I?ll always support experimentation in the pursuit of quality.  You can read about the barrels/background elsewhere.
Other facts about this one: It?s said to be 9-10 years old, been removed from sale but and has since become integrated as a component of the standard 10yo.  It had never been part of their esteemed Private Edition series (they?d confirmed to me by e-mail), but recently their website started listing it as among that series, retroactively.  #0?

Similar malts: Auchentoshan Valinch.



Glenmorangie Astar

57.1% ABV

*Taste: vanilla custard again, sugary sweet, light caramel, lemon shortbread, lavender, candied fig

Finish: very sweet medium finish, candied figs, vanilla, a touch of lavender tailing to warm numbing end with just a bit of alcohol burn

Score: 88/100

I received both of these in a swap with /u/I_SAID_NO_GOLDFISH and he recommended I taste them together. I'm glad he did. I was surprised at how well I could distinguish them. I was quite impressed by both, although the Astar tasted a touch more complex to me with it's stronger floral (lavender) notes. Wood spice was muted in both to my palate, although was stronger in the Caol Ila as the bitterness at the very end of the finish (I think).

I wish I would have thought to add water: I'm so used to drinking CS rye and bourbon that I didn't realize how high the ABV was until I looked it up after tasting each of these. Oops. I imagine that would have opened them up a bit more.



Fixed.

Thanks!



Special thanks to /u/Mr_dkatz for the swap (like 6 months ago, I have a backlog problem)  

I was a little late on getting a review in on the Astar, but I'm glad I was able to get the chance to do so.  I thought it was well crafted, but was just missing that extra x factor that would make it special.  The hint of nail polish in the palate didn't help the score either.  I applaud Glenmorangie for releasing a Cask Strength whisky and I hope they do it again soon.  I think a 55+% Quinta Ruban would be heavenly.  



Revisiting this dram for the first time in a while.  I remember it being very light and very sweet, a great dessert scotch.

Glenmorangie Astar, 57.1% ABV, non-chill filtered

Sweet.  A great dessert whisky, just as I remembered.  Opens up nicely with a couple drops of water.  Contains loads of delicate flavors.  I don't think this whisky would have done well below 100 proof, but does great where it's at.
88/100

Scotch Review #1

Whisky Network Review #2

Glenmorangie Review #1



Glemnmorangie astar 

Thank you to /u/scotch_fanatic for a taster of this whisky, I must preface this by saying I?ve never been a huge fan of Glenmorangie I usually find it to be sweet without an awful lot of complexity, a spoonful of sugar compared to a apple pie if you catch my drift, but I thought perhaps the cask strength may change my mind a little.

Colour: pale straw gold  

ABV: 57.1%  

Nose: a very light nose, a long inhale seemed necessary to get all the aromas into my nose. The first thing that decided to lethargically arrive at my olfactory nerves was some sweet maltiness dragging some lightly honeyed lemons in its wake. As I reached lung capacity I got a few more whispers from grated coconuts, a little white chocolate and some white fruits  

Taste: A lot warmer than what I expected from the nose, I was ready to be let down I must admit Sweet warmth is what I initially noticed but unlike its weaker brother, the Glenmorangie 10, this one has some back bone, likely from the extra ABV. For me it was malty with a large dollop of citrus and a little peachy with some apples creeping in there as well  

Finish: The finish all went straight to the throat and there it stayed spiced, with cinnamon and perhaps a pinch of pepper, lemon and oak, relatively long but only if I did that thing where you swallow a few times, if you know what I mean.  

Conclusions: Much, much better than the Glenmorangie 10 but very similar, I did enjoy this dram and it has warmed me to Glenmorangie but I wouldn?t buy a bottle, nothing particularly wowed me and I think the nose let it down quite a lot for me.

I?ll give it a 80/100, not amazing, but not at all bad



I really liked the Astar. I don't know if I've ever even tasted the glenmo10, but I'm a big fan of all of the private editions, and some of the wood finishes. I like them because they're a bit toned down and subtle instead of kick you in your face one or two note expressions. The Astar just amps it up and really delivers to my wheelhouse. I get very similar notes as you got, but it strikes a chord with me where I score it higher.

Great review though!



Glenmorangie Astar, 57.1% ABV

There have been several reviews of this dram recently, so I thought I'd throw one in too. For me, this is one from the Glenmorangie range that everyone should at least try once. It really is quite special!

Nose: Full of vanilla and buttercream, freshly baked Danish pastry, rich American oak, banana bread, vanilla sugar and creme brulee. Very thick, full-on and wonderful!

Palate: Creamy, rich vanilla oak with coconut, banana and marshmallow. A clean, crisp grain sweetness coming through after the sweet oaky arrival. Towards the end, a hint of coffee/chocolate. Finally, some peppery oak spice.

Finish: The creamy oak vanilla sticks to the palate, quite sweet. More cereal notes later, with a bit of oak also. Long, sweet and smooth. 

This really is quite an exceptional whisky, the nose in itself is an experience! I previously described the AnCnoc 16 as a "Bourbon-oak scalpel", to continue the analogy, the Astar is equivalent to a Bourbon-oak cruise missile that blows your palate away with an explosion of vanilla, creme brulee, banana and coconut. 

I guess this must get an A+, since I just opened my 2nd bottle of the stuff!



In order of personal preference:

1: Astar

2: Signet (maybe better than Astar but out of my price range so can't make sure. Donations welcome :P)

3: Quinta Rubin

=4: Original and Nectar D'Or

6: La Santa (dat sulphur... ugh)

I've also tried the Artein but it was at a Whisky Fair and I was a bit drunk by that time so not fair to judge it. I remember not liking it that much (too winey).



Definitely, but I can't predict when. I won't forget though, when there's an opening, I'll let you know.

We may have been over this, but do you ski?



Happy Super Bowl Sunday, Malty Madden-ites! Here's a quick review of a sample sent to me by everyone's favorite uncle from down under.

Glenmorangie Astar

Region: Highland

ABV: 57.1%

Nose: Vanilla, oak, sugary pastries, apples, coconut cream pie, and a bit of wintery spice.

Palate: Hot and creamy, tons of oaky vanilla. Banana, toffee, caramel, peppery, and a hint of ash. 

Finish: Long, spicy, oaky, sweet, and smooth. 

92/100

Awesomely rich stuff, love it. Apparently discontinued in late 2012, it follows a long line of affordable and delicious malts that were killed either to increase production of the core range or to stop cannibalization of higher-dollar expressions.



Hello Scotchit, Scotch_Fanatic here with another review. This is my first Glenmorangie. Onto the review. Slainte!

Glenmorangie Astar, 57.1%, NCF, 82$

Color: Straw gold

Nose: Luscious exotic fruits, ripe pineapple, honney, richly floral, white chocolate and sweet malt. 

Palate: Very warm, juicy orange and pineapple, citrus, faint marcipan and chocolate. 

Finish: Luscious fruity sweetness, spicy, medium-long.

I had some pretty high expectations after reading some of the reviews. I wasn't let down! The smells and flavours are simply exquisite. Being bottled at 57.1% this offers little to no burn. It is a NAS whisky with great maturity. This is my new #1 whisky. Are there any other Glenmorangies worth seeking out, outside their standard age stated range?

Overall, 93/100



Whoa, new #1 whisky? That is quite a revelation. Please let us know if your opinion deepens or alters after a few more drams from this bottle.

You should totally upload another review for your second tasting.



Really loved Artein. 

"...finished in Super Tuscan wine barrels. It is made up of 2 parts 15 year old whisky with 1 part 21 year old whisky."



I love this whisky... I actually prefer to the Ealanta, which is also awesome.  Great review.  

Edit:  I'll add the 18 year to the list as well... it might be over-priced at around $100, but its a beautifully delicate scotch.  



A delicious and impressively complex NAS, cask strength whisky at 57.4 % ABV. Affordable too!

Color: Amber -2

Aroma Neat: White Wine, Green Grapes, Grape Stems, Vanilla (huge), Woody, Barrel Char, Fresh Caramel/Burnt Sugar, Custard, Banana Creme, Red Apples, Cinnamon, Nutmeg. Nose is stunningly fruity, green, fresh, complex. The high proof is evident. 

Aroma Water: Wood (oak with a ceder spiciness and piny aromatics), Honey, Barley Sugar, Malt Sweets, Vanilla, Vanilla Ice Cream, Apples, Bananas, Pineapple Juice, Grappa. Nose becomes very gentle with water. 

Taste Neat: Caramel, White Pepper, Black Pepper, Oak, Peaches, Barrel Char. Tasty, but definitely needs water.

Taste Water: Honey, Mead, Caramel, White Grapes, Winey, Oaky (very), Nutmeg. Palate transitions from sweet, to spice, to fruit and wood.

Finish: Grapes, Oak (low tannins, just very woody), Dark Fruit, Cranberry, Musty Bark, Medicinal Pine (at tail end). Very warming and dry finish of medium-long duration.

Conclusion:

Probably the best and most complex nose I've experienced. Like a damp spring morning.

Interesting palate with a rewarding balance of spice, fruit, and wood.

Overall a delicious malt with an enormously pleasing flavor profile. This serves as an excellent example of a modern style.

Rating: 92/100
