Thanks for the sample /u/tsefly.

Appearance: Amber +1

Nose: Some burnt sugar, aniseed, some dry sherry. Man, what is it about these Glenmorangie wine finishes? its like pulling teeth to get anything from the nose.

Taste: Very rich in the mouth, sweet sherry up front with quite a bit of ginger spice, some oranges, black currants. Not a ton of depth to be honest.

Finish: Finishes dry, lots of lingering spice in my mouth. Fades rather quickly. Short.

Note: This is the second wine finished Glenmorangie I've had in as many days; it was the Quinta Ruban yesterday. I think I've figured out my problem with both of them: When you put a strong wine finish on a very delicate whisky, the base spirit gets lost. It's like making a really delicate sponge cake desert with rose water, vanilla, safflower, and then dumping a shitload of bourbon vanilla chocolate sauce on it. Chances are, you wont even taste what's underneath. That's what this is. You get hit with Sherry.... and that's it. The Sherry drowns out any flavours that might be hiding in the background. A more delicate wine finish might work here, but stop it with these heavy red-wine finishes Glenmorangie. They don't work.

Score: 81/100

Scores to Date: Min:66.0, Max:98.0, Avg:85.9, SD:5.1

Total Reviews: 106



Colour: Golden Yellow.

Nose: Sour, sweet, white wine, faint sulfer.

Palate: Typical Glenmorangie sweetness, honey, flowers, light citrus, conflicting sherry quality that is separate and does not blend well with the other flavours, acidic fruit, refined white sugar.

Finish: Vanilla sweetness quickly gives way to alcohol tingle then dies with a licked envelope taste.

Man, super uneven here.  Despite all the sweet qualities mentioned above, this really fails to wraps it's arms around me.  The sherry quality is very faint, doesn't taste good, and seems to be in conflict with the other Glenmoranige 10 elements.  The 46% abv is overpowering, first time I've ever found the alcohol too powerful in a single malt.  A whole bunch of notes that don't do each other any favours.  Somehow tastes cheap.  I don't mind the 10 and this shares a lot of it's qualities but I rate this significantly lower.  While I found the Nectar D'Or to improve on the 10, this does the opposite.  

I tried this a second time after I'd written up the review, drinking it after a glass of the flawed but enjoyable Glenmorangie 10.  My god, the 10 blows it out of the water.  This was a smaller sampler bottle, perhaps of lower quality than others.  Reading some of the positive reviews of the Lasanta, I can't help but wonder if people are tasting the same whisky I am.  I think something is afoul here.

Price not factored into the lowest score I've dished out yet. 

61/100



My local store is selling each of these for $7 a piece.  

So far, the only only I've bought was the Lasanta. (ffffuuuuuu) Which I've yet to try.

What of the others do you recommend?



SULFURSULFURSULFURSULFURSULFUR

Seriously Glenmorangie get your shit together.  I literally poured the other half of my 50mL bottle down the drain... only scotch I've ever done that to.



I found a 50ml sample for $5. 

To be a bit snarky, it was worth the $5 -- to find out I shouldn't drop $40-50 on a whole bottle. 



Agreed. I'm just glad I didn't spend the usual "bottle price" on the stuff. I'd have felt compelled to drink it because I dropped so much money on it. I'd probably try and mix it with stuff or just use it for drinking games with bad movies or something.

This scene pretty much sums up my experience, minus the last two lines. 



: My favorite scotches tend to be sherry cask based so it would make sense to try this one. I was hoping it would provide and alterative to my Macallan 12 yet it was not quite up to the challenge. I think the reason for this is that it is finished in sherry for 2 years as opposed to the whole 12.

43% ABV

Paid:$40 ( Part of Glenmorangie 100ml 3 Pack)

Color:Autumn Brown

Drank:Neat in a glencairn

Nose: Sherry and dried fruits come off first, followed by figs and slivers of black currant.

Taste: A bite of sherry to quickly replaced by oak. Raisins and dates are the main mouthful with a linger of black cherry.

Finish: Slightly warm with sherry influence a welcome reappearance. Much to short.

Overall: I really wanted to love this one, but it comes off as an average scotch to me. More time aging or more time in sherry casks would have helped it I think. I also am aware I sampled the lower proof version and the previous was 46%, that too may have helped this rise above average.

Score: 72/100



Nice.  Is the 46% discontinued? 

And please tell me that the plate in the back was missed by DMV personnel and actually ended up on a vehicle. 



GlenMorangie Lasanta Sherry Finished ? 46%, $44

Nose: Sherry sweet, malt, light honey.

Taste: Honey, sherry dates, slight alcohol burn, sweet malt. Light mouthfeel.

Finish: Sherry and honey malt hold until the end. Short-Medium length.

Notes: It?s pretty ok. Like most of Glenmorangie range I can say the price is right for what you?re getting, and what you get is a good introduction into what this type of cask finish tastes like. 

84/100






Glenmorangie Lasanta

(12y, 46%, 10y in ex-bourbon casks + 2y in oloroso and PX casks)

?

Thanks to u/Devoz for this sample!

?

Nose: Raisin, strawberry, plum, honey, chocolate, leather, tobacco

Taste: Orange, red grape, cinnamon, oak, black pepper

Finish: Oak, cinnamon, black pepper

?

Pretty classic sherry notes lead things off on the nose. A little sticky and sweet, with red berries and honey to start. Some darker chocolate notes with time, turning musky towards the back end. To taste? wait, what just happened? Watery flavours, with a bit of orange and not quite ripe red grapes (read: acidic) up front. The sherry wears quickly here, turning oaky partway through along with a bit of a spicy kick. The wood notes are cranked up even further in the finish, quite bitter and tannic now with the sherry all but gone. Quite astringent. 

The entirely promising start from the nose sadly falls apart quickly once you hit the taste. What?s there isn?t bad per se (no major off notes but every now and then in the mustiness I catch reminders of sulphur)? but beyond the nose things devolve quickly and there just isn?t much of anything left other than musky oak driven notes. u/Devoz - I see why this is in the kill pile, and I?m not surprised that it feels like this one just won?t die. Ah well, one for personal education at least. 

?

78/100



I'm with you here.  I got a lot more sulphur than you.  I had a bottle for like 3 years then one day I just told myself I would kill it.  Over the course of a week or two I just drowned it in ice to get rid of it.  It's still whiskey so there was some enjoyment, just not as much as I would like.  

Lasanta?  I'd rather have lasagna!  Amirite? 



Right, heard a lot about this. It's one of glenmo's 3 extra matured 12 year old expressions, this one is finished in Oloroso sherry casks.  

Nose: Honey. Sticky sherry. Black pepper. Matches. Rich cereal. Floral notes. Strawberries & Cream flavor oat-so-easy. Grit. Sticky oak. Bit of young spirit bite (just a tad). Plum pudding. Nectarines. Chocolate covered raisins.

Palate: Sherried wood front and center. Sticky cherries. Matches. Raisins left in a plastic bag in the sun. Honey. Hint of citrus, maybe ruby grapefruit. 

Finish: Medium. Red fruits. Dry sherry. Sweet fruits. Dry wood. 

Rating: 8/10

Not a fan of the sweet fruity sherry, but this is a nicely put together dram. There's also quite a bit of the Glenmo DNA still in here, which I like. If you like the sherried ones give it a try. 



I'd have to say the Quinta Ruban really hit the spot for me.

Good complexity without being too sweet or syrupy.



Glenmorangie is a Highland distillery, where "The sixteen men of Tain" make Scotch on behalf of LVMH (Louis Vuitton Moet Hennessy), the luxury conglomerate who are also kind enough to make Ardbeg for us.

Glenmorangie Lasanta

12 years old. 43% abv. Finished in sherry casks.

Nose - Honey, raisins, vanilla, malty, mild baking spice notes. Obviously not 100% sherry matured, but it doesn?t seem like LVMH skimped on the sherry here either. Reminds me a bit of the 18.

Palate - Unpleasantly tannic and astringent, kind of like I?d imagine a burnt match would taste (damn sulphur - usually it doesn?t bother me). Behind this sulphury bitterness are the malty vanilla honey notes and mild peppery spice from the nose, which are nice, but unfortunately that bitterness is front and center here. 

Finish - Peppery, hot, honey/vanilla sweetness, and too much sulphur.

This shit is terrible. Avoid. I couldn?t even finish my first pour. I went back to it a couple days later to make sure my palate wasn?t off, and while the sulphury bitterness was toned down the second time, it was still too strong.

65/100

next up we get the sherried version that I'll be re-posting in a couple of days. The Lasanta is aged 2 years in oloroso sherry casks. 

Appearance: much darker than the original, with rusty orangee influence from the sherry casks. Great legs too.

Nose: red fruit - raspberries especially, plus some dried prunes. Very sweet smelling. 

Taste: definitely very sweet? the sugar content punches you in the mouth. Sugar candies. Harsh alcohol bite too. fruity, and some grassiness from the spirit. Rough and unbalanced. Tastes younger than the 10yr.

Finish: sweet and short.

Score: 72/100




I personally don't care for Glenmorangie, as it simply is too light for my taste. Nice reviews, though (as always).

I hear that the new Lasanta, which is only 43% abv, is much better than the old version. We'll see in the Community Review!



Thanks to /u/devoz, /u/lasidar, /u/scotch_fanatic, and /u/allumina for samples. And me for buying others.

Me is pretty great. Can't name things though.

So based on some of my last multi-reviews, I can't call this a vertical. It's vertical-ish, but not really a vertical. Also isn't a horizontal either.

Diagnonal sounds dumb. No, this is a Cluster Fuck (patent pending) of reviews.

What's a Cluster Fuck? Well that's when a disorganized group of people have sexual relations with one another in a chaotic fashion. So without proper organization or a project manager.

So remember: Always bring a Project Manager to your orgies.

Glad we all learned something. And that's about all for today.

Wait.

I was doing something, wasn't I?

Oh, yeah, Scotch reviews. Sometimes I get ahead of myself (see Cluster Fuck above).

Glenmorangie brings out a lot of different whiskies, finished, no finished, in odd casks, and what not. The company's first records are from a farm in 1703. Now they have 6% of the single malt whisky stock.

That's a lot. Let's see how these 6 disorganized whiskies (disorganized in that they don't follow a pattern to be together, not in how they are made) measure up.

Region: Highland

I showed up to school the year after our Drama club started off. In some ways, I was able to be there for it's second Golden Age, seeing two major festivals hosted, multiple awards (of which I won some), and great times had by all.

Before I showed up, they had fought tooth and nail, emptying out pockets of change and collecting any money to have simple sets, all while seeing massive musicals win ahead of them.

Years after I left, the drama club swelled, and my old High School became an Art School. Yet there weren't any awards, festivals, or anything of the like.

What does this have to do with whisky? Well, in 2014, Glenmorangie brought out the Ealanta, an amazing whisky that later was named whisky of the year.

The next year they brought out Glenmorangie Companta. Finished in 60% Burgundy wine casks from Clos de Tart and 40% Rh?ne Valley casks that previously held Rasteau, this could be amazing, yet it's in the shadow of Ealanta, which I loved (like many others).

Yet just because we may have missed the first great age doesn't mean this one will be bad. It could be bad, of course, regardless of how good or bad the previous year was.

So let's see how this tastes, independent of the past.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 46%

Nose: Strawberry jam, peach, caramel, ginger, allspice, orange

Reminds me of a marmalade/jam mixture, yet there's these great spices that are so prolific this time of year.

And yes, my Uggs look great with my Yoga pants, thank you very much.

Taste: Pepper, cherry, ginger, lemon, cherry, pepper, candied yam

Bit hot at first, yet it works with the cherry, and... I wrote cherry twice, didn't I? Well there's a lot of cherry.

It's not like a sherry bomb. Close, however it's lighter and the earth is more developed.

Finish: Orange, cocoa, lime, gingersnaps, oak, sulfur

Very poor finish overall, sadly. Where as the taste and nose had interesting, if simple portions, the finish is brief and this sulphuric element seems to pull it down, like crabs in a bucket, or lacking a great writer.

If I may drop my humble-brag.

Conclusion: So this has an interesting, nice autumn nose, followed by a unique, well balanced taste, and then a let down of a finish.

Which is too bad, really. I'm not going to give this too low of marks. Yeah, the finish isn't great. It's not bad either. I think it could have been better at 48%.

As for comparing it to the Ealanta? Not really fair, but it's going to happen. I'd say that maybe next time they should avoid releasing a NAS whisky, regardless of finish, a year after releasing a 19 year whisky.

81/100

Blocking out part of understanding is an important step in admitting you're full of shit.

Oh, I don't know you well; however I do know that we, all of us, are full of shit at some point.

So after reviewing Glenmorangie 18 as part of a mystery dram many years ago, I swapped for another sample.

Why? Because I'm a godamn masochist.

Also I wanted to try it again. I was older, more set in my ways, and with less hair on my head. I should be able to try it.

Granted I didn't know that it was aged for 15 years in ex-bourbon casks and 3 years in ex-oloroso casks. That didn't matter.

I had to try it again. For my own sake.

So, let's see how this dram tasted when I knew what it was, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 43%

Colour: 10YR 6/8

Nose: Mango, lemon, caramel, ginger, vanilla, earth, moss

Very odd mixture here. Part of it is really sweet, with lots of vanilla and caramels. The other part is very earthy.

Very sweet nose. Not surprising from Glenmorangie, which I find sweet by itself.

Taste: Burn/chili, butterscotch, lemon, cashew, floral, clay, oily

The initial burn is pretty rough. Rough like driving down a winter road in skivvies on a motorbike in Maine.

That's pretty rough. But great views, at least.

Once the burn subsides, there's a lot of floral and earth/oily elements. Takes some getting used to, and as someone who isn't the biggest fan of too much earth, it's kinda rough still.

Finish: Gravel, orange, floral, chilis, ginger, basil

Gravel is not something I like to drink. Let's be clear there. I used to make cement, and I know the taste of dirt though, and this is gravel like.

The other flavours are nice and blend well. Yet the gravel remains, haunting me.

Conclusion: I think I complain a little too much about this dram. Let's take a step back.

It's interesting, has some different flavours, develops well, and isn't as overly sweet as it could be.

That said, there's too much burn and too much earth. Plain and simple, some aspects just don't work, so while I rate it well enough, I'd say there's better drams for your dollar.

79/100

This is my Ferrari. I love driving around in it.

But what I'm really proud of? All these whisky reviews. They made me sharp. Who I am.

And that's what I'd say if I too was a douche canoe.

Unfortunately I don't have the money of said female cleaning agent water transportation tool. Otherwise I could have purchased a bottle of Glenmorangie Signet.

Perhaps that's for the best though. I'd have given into buying this Scotch made with more chocolate malt than normal, that some of it was aged in virgin oak, and I'd assume that was amazing.

Wait... I am sounding like a different vaginal boat now...

Okay, so if I had the money, maybe I'd give into this expensive NAS whisky. Maybe I wouldn't. That doesn't really matter.

What matters is how it tastes. And we should see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: 5YR 3/8

Nose: Currant, pear, rhubarb tarts, rubber, allspice, plums, peat moss

A lot of red fruits in this. And rubber. Which is kinda odd.

Wait, is my Ferrari on fire?

Oh well, it was made of rubber.

Anyway, there's a lot of dark fruits that change as time goes on. The earth of the peat moss is well placed here too.

Taste: Papaya, mint, ginger, apple, strawberry, cocoa

If I was a betting man, I'd say this had sherry influence. And that's why I don't bet.

Granted my Ferrari's on fire, so you may want to disregard that.

It's all a little bit jumbled. Kinda like a test for a dessert that didn't quite work.

Finish: Smoke, mushroom, ginger, pepper, rubber

Smoke is nice, yet it turns to rubber, and I'd make the car joke again, but no one believes that a guy who likes whisky this much has money for an expensive car he can only drive 6 months of the year.

It's simple at the end. I don't hate it, but I wanted something more.

Conclusion: Good, if not too complex nose, jumbled taste, and a finish that smells like a rubber fire.

I said a RUBBER FIRE!

I was hoping for something interesting, and I got that. Is interesting always good? Not really. I think they can do better.

77/100



Reviewing what you wrote before is interesting. Maybe you made too many dick jokes. Or maybe you accused everyone of being full of shit.

Or maybe something could have been better.

When I first reviewed Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban, I was very happy. Why? Because I wasn't in a local shooting that just happened a few blocks away from me.

That's a big deal here in Canada, trust me.

Also I was on one of my wedding anniversaries. I had amazing Chinese food (which is rare to find), I was going to get lucky in a different bed, and I wasn't being shot at.

Let me be clear: I like NOT being shot at.

So perhaps I was hasty in trying this port finished whisky. And given this night there isn't a shooting, and I'm just relaxing, let's see how I really feel about this dram.

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: 2.5R 3/8

Nose: Plum, cocoa, floral, peach, grapefruit, light caramel

There's this deep, floral and plum filled caramel dram. It's really deep, and tasty.

Like that one girl you could never hit the end of. Or the start (deep, I know).

Taste: Plum, caramel, ginger, butter, cereal, cinnamon, birch

So.. yeah, I'm one of the bitter brothers, let's get that out of the way.

And I like this dram. A lot. It's dark fruit, deep flavour, and nice cereal meld really nicely.

However... there's this birch sap flavour

Finish: Cinnamon, alcohol, chocolate, floral, nectarine, honey

Bit harsh on the end. Don't get me wrong; I like the other notes. Chocolate? I'm fat, of course. Honey? I'm the grandson of a beekeeper, I grew up on it. But raw alcohol? Not helping.

Doesn't really clear either. Too bad. Maybe it needed more time in the pipes?

Conclusion: Alright, I've come to two conclusions: I rated this too low the first time, and I thought of it too highly this whole time.

How does that work? Well you review over 500 whiskies and remember everything just right. Jerk.

So, it is quite good. They've pulled together an amazing nose and a great taste in 12 short years. That's pretty amazing.

And the finish is almost there. There's issues, sure, but I'd still go for this rather than other Glenmorangie's, and on an even more positive note, I think Glenmorangie has balanced port flavours really well in comparison to other drams I've had.

82/100

/u/zillah1985 has his search for Pappy 23. I... didn't.

Don't get me wrong; I want to try it at some point. And I loved his post. However it's not the toy I was looking for.

You see, most kids enjoy getting that one toy, and put it away. And those kids are healthy, live great lives, and enjoy themselves. They move on.

I didn't. I needed to collect things. Have full sets. I was like a mule with a complete kitchen set. No idea what to do with it yet proud to have it.

I played a lot of Magic: The Gathering. Trading was my favourite part.

Then I moved onto whisky. Started with some of the easy stuff. You know, like trying the simple ones, like those from Glenmorangie. Not simple in complexity; more so just out there. You could find the Original and the three finished ones anywhere.

Except I couldn't find Glenmorangie Lasanta. And that's... frustrating to me. I'm not OCD; that infers I can't leave my house. Obsessed? Nope, haven't skinned someone's face and worn it on my crouch while calling out to Freya to bless the crops.

No, I'm driven. I can't really drop things I collect. And it typically works. In this case it took a few years, and here we are. I can now try this dram, which has been finished in both oloroso and PX sherry casks for 2 years.

Let's see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: 2.5YR 4/8

Nose: Raspberry, mango, banana, coffee, cassia buds, juniper, watermelon

Big fruit tastes, and something that I haven't smelled in awhile. Like a Mox Diamond.

Well, I haven't smelled that because I stopped playing Magic, it doesn't smell, and I lost 3 of them, sadly.

No, more of the coffee and banana notes. Really tasty. And it pairs well with an almost gin smell. Love the nose on this.

Taste: Coffee, rhubarb, strawberry, anise, oily, banana

Holy shit I miss coffee. I didn't collect coffee (that's a segue). No, I just enjoyed it when it was well made. And now I can't have it.

That said, while I liked tasting it again without that burnt shit taste from decaf, the coffee doesn't really fit here. It's not balancing it out like it should, and it's showing up like a Yugi-oh player to a Magic tournament.

Finish: Earth, coffee, chilis, rosemary, green melon

And here it comes again. The earth at the end, the unbalanced notes feel like a shitty rare in a pack of decent uncommons.

Or rather: I wish it met the nose.

Conclusion: I'm happy to have had this. And I'd even consider drinking it again. Is it amazing? No. However it's tasty. The finish ends not so great, which sucks, but that's not something to worry about.

I finished part of my collection. And that makes me feel happy. I like coffee too, so I'm adding some bonus points. Because I'm mad with power.

81/100

I have something to admit: I have trouble in the Southern US.

Why? Well I was brought up in Canada, where we're taught the South is really racist and poor and live in warm places.

I've since met a lot of great people from the South. That said, it's hard to move away from that believe brought on by popular culture.

So when I hear about Artisan Casks from the Ozarks of Missouri, I have to say I'm not 100% sold. I'm barely 50% sold.

And that's really stupid. Because the wood isn't affected by the past. And the USA has some pretty cool wood producing, and warm weather gives us cool wood.

