A quick review of this dram, thanks /u/namadio for the samples.  I'm saving the second half of the sample for a later side by side review with the Glenfiddich 19 year old Age of Discovery Bourbon Cask.

Initial Impressions: that's a lot of apples!

Price: $57.99 to purchase a full bottle here

Nose: apples, unnaturally sweetened tart green apples. Distinctly like the green apple scented dish soaps or green apple flavored hard candy. A little bit of ethanol that fades quickly. Green leaves, a hint of baking spices, and even smaller hints of oak, caramel, and vanilla. Apple crisp, apple cobbler, stewed apples, salted caramel apples. Apple pie baked with raisins (the only sherry note I can detect)

Taste: entry is oaken (new oak as opposed to overoaked/old oak) and dry. Sherry and raisins. Surprisingly no apples. Cinnamon and (burnt) brown sugar mingle with sour grapes or lemon. Malt and fresh grain bread flavors become stronger and stronger as more time is spent sipping.

Finish: green apple candy flavor is back in force for the aftertaste, though the sweetness is limited by some tannic oak flavors. What there is of a burn is short and lives exclusively in the back of the throat.

I'm always a fan of a good Speyside, it seems, and this is no exception. This dram doesn't disappoint, hitting all the right notes. The nose was the best, falling off a minimal amount in the taste.  On par with the Glenlivet 12 more than the 15 for me - B+

Score: 89/100

Would I buy it again?  I might buy a full bottle of this in the future, yes.  It's enjoyable, it's scotch.



Glenfiddich 15

Strength: 40%

Color: Amber.

Nose: Strawberry and red fruit. A little spice. 

Palate: Bright fruit and toffee, with vanilla and cinnamon. 

Finish: Dark chocolate and oak. Warm and a little bitter. 

Summary: A nice step up from the 12. Definitely a good buy for the price. I learned tonight that the 15 is finished in port pipes after coming out of the solera. 

Score: 89/100 

The 15 year is a blend of ex-bourbon oak, ex-Sherry oak, and a small amount of ex-bourbon oak which has been finished in virgin oak.   

This is allowed to marry in the solera vat which is never emptied more than half way.  The solera vat was first filled in 1998 and holds 9000 gallons.   The 15 yr is not finished in any other casks.  



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Glenfiddich reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Yep. They described them as follows:

15: lots of casks dumped in a solera made of pine to avoid the maturing effect that oak has. Periodically some of the solera is  emptied (but never more than half) to fill port pipes for finishing.




The Glenfiddich 18yr brings together ex-sherry casks and ex-bourbon casks that have been independently aged a min of 18 yrs.   Once these casks are brought together in small batches they are placed in marrying tuns.   These tuns are made of oak however it is not virgin oak.   

While Glenfiddich's washbacks are made out of Dougas Fir/Oregon Pine the solera vat was hand crafted out of oak.   



This sample comes to me courtesy of /u/RHuston502, thanks man!

I actually first reviewed this sample blind after I let it breathe for about 30 minutes, and I was really underwhelmed, scoring it about 70. The second half of the sample I reviewed after it only rested about 10 minutes and I enjoyed the dram a lot more. My final score is a reflection of the second tasting more than the first, though I?ve included some of the initial tasting notes.

?

** Glenfiddich Solera 15 year ? 40% ABV**

?

AVG Score to date: 75

?

Well, there?s nothing wrong with it, but it?s not really exciting to drink either. You could probably go through a bottle of this ?Fiddich and not even realize it. I was interested in that kind of dram when I first started out, but having tried Laphroaig 18, Tobermory 15, HW MWND, and their ilk, makes it difficult to score this one higher even if it?s a perfectly fine whiskey. If I had to describe this one in a single word I would say: drinkable.

?

Would I re-buy a bottle? I think I?d rather have the 12YO, actually? but it?s been a while...



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  I have a couple reviews I'm sitting on that I will eventually get out.  We've had so many great reviews in the last month, 60 alone in December, that i don't want to get in anyone's way.  Anyway, I was at a bar the other night with some coworkers (the ones I didn't murder) and it happened to be a bar that had just been redone.  Along with a completely upgrade Scotch selection.  So I actually got to enjoy the night!  The second dram I had was Glenfiddich 15.  I had a bottle of it when I was first starting out with Scotch, before I started reviews, so I figured I'd be a nerd and review as my friends are sitting right there staring blankly at me.

Color: Reddish Brown like the packaging

Nose: Light sweet spice, nutmeg sugar

Taste: malty coca-cola, brown sugar maple, dried cherries and cinnamon

Finish: tangy smooth, medium

for not having it for a year it's pretty much how I remember it.  18 is still my favorite of the Glenfiddich's I've had so far, including Snow Phoenix.  Haven't had the 21 yet... maybe it will cross my path.  only 80 proof, it could use a little bump.  

an interesting note about this whisky is the Solera.  it is matured in American bourbon, Portuguese sherry and virgin oak. The whisky was then married in a Solera vat.  The Solera vat is always half full of Glenfiddich 15.  Kind of cool, here is the photo: http://i.imgur.com/A6GrN.jpg

86/100



Glenfiddich 15




This is a mystery dram from a pack of 3 such samples from Flaviar. Flaviar is a website that sells bottles and tasting packs of all sorts of spirits, some well known, and quite a few obscure ones. They?re a tad pricy but their shipping to here is very reasonable, and the tasting packs can be quite interesting, worth checking out.

This one turned out to be an from Glenfiddich. Everyone knows Glenfiddich and their 12 year old is one of the first stepping stones on many a whisky fan?s journey. I?m not a huge fan of their stuff (aside from the 14 year old Rich Oak), but I?ve always wanted to try this one. It?s matured for at least some of the time in a Solera. This is a method of maturation used primarily in making sherry where you have a set of tiered casks. Half of the bottom tier is bottled, and then refilled from the above tier, until you reach the top tier which is filled with new sherry. So you have some much older stuff floating around in each tier.

Glenfiddich started their solera vat in 1998, and I find it quite an interesting concept and am quite curious to see what this maturation method does to whisky. This isn?t really a tiered cask system, but a vat used at the end of maturation from which only half is bottled. Unfortunately no information is available as to just how much of the maturation time is spent in the solera vat.

Aged 15 years. 40% ABV. Aged in European sherry casks and new oak casks.

Nose: Oranges. Oak. Apricots. Tile grout. Butterscotch. Some glue and acetone, not much. Light, clear honey (the industrial stuff). Golden delicious apples. Ginger biscuits.

Palate: Apricots. Oranges. Woodspice?.. hey where?d the flavour go?

Finish: Short. Very short. Bit of dry wood, woodspice and apple tart.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: No

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 3/5

I liked the nose on this, it was quite interesting, but as usually happens with low ABV, chill filtered whiskies, the flavour kind of fades away after that. This was still quite a bit more intriguing that their 12 year old, although I have a feeling cask influence is doing more for the flavour profile here than the solera vat. Still quite a generic Speysider though, there?s better fare out there for a similar price.

Reviewed in my blog: https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2016/05/02/glenfiddich-15-solera-reserve/



There's potential with this one, but as you said, it suffers from being a drop of water away from being "not scotch".   

I pump it up with a cask strength sherry bomb; makes it more interesting.



Glenfiddich 15

Glenfiddich is a Speyside Distillery owned by the same people that bring us Balvenie. Glenfiddich is quite widely available, and was recently passed by Glenlivet as the biggest selling single malt in the world.

The 15 year undergoes a ?solera? process - where barrels are dumped in a big marrying vat, to better integrate flavors prior to bottling (or something). Theoretically, there could be whisky in the solera from the time the solera has been in operation, which Diageo has recently tried to take advantage of by putting a little S-W distillate in a solera to make Blade & Bow.

40% abv.

Nose - Quite fruity and oaky. The oakiness comes through as kind of a sweet-earthy coffee + baklava note, with some honey and red apple. Aromas seem nicely integrated here, not quite the mish-mash the Glenlivet came across as.

Taste - Red apple, baklava, honey, toffee, with an earthy coffee note and some mild black pepper and gingery spice coming in as it develops. Light, watery body - very ?smooth?. Nicely balanced and integrated.

Finish - Coffee, ginger, black pepper, honey, baklava. Spice notes are pretty mild, likely due to the strength. Starts to become slightly acrid, but that note thankfully dies without really going anywhere. A bit quick, in a way that leaves me wanting more (that?s what she said).

This is better than I remembered - the finish I remember getting a stronger, kind of unpleasant acrid note - but that seems to be gone here. Nothing particularly memorable here, but this is a nice integration of Speysidey flavors, though it is a bit light and the finish a bit quick.

86/100



What is S-W destillate? 

Also, is the 15 comparable to the 12?



S-W distillate = Stitzel-Weller.

I thought the 15 had more sherry influence than the 12, which stayed with more honey/vanilla/pear type flavors.



Oh, right, I get it now... Is it any good?

Also, that's what I had figured. I really like the 12, and the 18 isn't too bad either, but I'd like to try some more Fiddich. I have their 15 DE, 19 Madeira, and the 125th anniversary on my shelf, but haven't opened either yet.



S-W distillate was created from a recipe handed down from God to the Patron Saint of Bourbon, Julian Van Winkle, who oversaw a group of angels that ran the distillery.

The distillery is now closed, though the spirit lives on, through brands such as Pappy Van Winkle's Family Reserve. Many catch only but a glimpse of the greatness via Weller 12.



The original S-W distillate is pretty much gone. The distillery closed towards the end of '91/early '92. Anything these days would be Buffalo Trace wheated mash (with the exception of the Rye, which has a murky provenance), and maaaaybe some wheated Bernheim distillate, but I'm not sure about that.

Not sure what you mean by out of original GTS...that's always been Buffalo Trace mash #1 (low rye), aged 15ish years. They recently ran out of the tanked Sazerac 18 that they'd been putting out for quite some time, next year will be a new batch.



I've had this bottle for a while and realized I hadn't yet reviewed it. As I've recently started my own Solera bottle, though I'd do a deep dive into what's probably the most well known solera offering widely available. When I first tried it, I wasn't overly impressed, but my appreciation of sherried whiskies has increased over time, so perhaps that verdict will change. 

Appearance:  orange-red-gold colour, viscous staying power on the glass. 

Nose: oak, vanilla, sherry, burnt sugars, lots of fruit - pears, berries, plums. 

Taste: heavy fruit flavours - more plums, cherries, apples. Lots of oak, vanilla, spices. Sherry. Lots of sugars, cinnamon. 

Finish: lingering finish, more spicy than the palate. Thick mouthfeel. Woody in the long run. 

Rating: 88/100

this has definitely improved in my estimation over time. At 15, it's the oldest bottle on my shelf actually, and the Solera vatting brings a rich complexity to the dram. Surprisingly doesn't lack anything for being bottled at 40%. I'm definitely a fan now. I also added a measure of this to my own Solera bottle, which i think is pretty cool too. 



This is my goto when suggesting something good but not super expensive for people wanting to try decent scotch.

It does a lot right and doesn't offend. Can't ask much more imo.

Nice review.



Yeah, sucks for you guys, everything sounds expensive in Ontario.

It's like $40-$45 around me in the states. Still expensive I guess for liquor. Since most people consider a $20 bottle of Maker's or some random Vodka to be expensive. But as far as scotch goes, a bargain.

There are options in the same price range with more interesting things going on, but for someone new, this hits the spot, and isn't likely to turn people away. 



Lots more for that price range. Auchentoshan 12yo is on sale for $50 flat right now, Dewars Aberfeldy is around too, $50 as well. Don't forget to try Te Bheag too, it's a blend for $37, but a very nice one, though with a dash of peat.

If you like the Fiddich 15, and don't mind spending about $5 more, see if you can find a Tullibardine 500. Double bourbon barreled and a sherry butt finish. Absolutely amazing.

Me? An LCBO employee? Naw...



Thanks for the vertical, always great to see these.

Just had the 15 Distillers Edition this past weekend, and wasn't as crazy about it - found it too oaky bitter on the finish.  Prefer the 18 and 21 Gran Reserva, personally.



best of the range

I quite like the 15 DE, but I reserve that title for the 14yo Rich oak. Tried it?



I can't say I've had the DE, but the only one I found that I actually liked enough to buy a full bottle of is their 14 Bourbon Barrel Reserve. The more substantial caramel and vanilla notes help mute that apple/pear barrage that I find off-putting and the actual wood comes through nicely with some decent spice. Throw in that it's bottled at 43% and you get something that's actually pretty good.

All of which is odd because I'm not generally a fan of ex-bourbon maturation.



Hey everyone,

Glenlivet yesterday, Glenfiddich today. Again, one of the most recognised brands and one that is often cited as a good beginner malt. I normally find it has a similar profile to Glenlivet but with more fruit and less floral notes. 

Interstingly, despite being huge and making a metric shit-tonne (technical term) of whisky, they still have small direct fired stills, which should give it a more traditional character. Although, I think the only time it can show itself off is at higher strength. 

As with Glenlivet, I?m not a huge fan of Glenfiddich, even the older stuff. Never really bottled above 40%, I feel like the character of the spirit is normally too muted. Anyways, here?s my reviews:

?

Glenfiddich 15 Solera Vat 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Very nutty and fruity. Tiny bit of heat, classic apple and pear combo, sweety shop, fragrant and perfumed- Incense, rosewater, lavender, malty chocolate.

Taste: Very light and delicate. Nut- Peanut?, and fruit- Apple and pear, toffee, sweety shop sweets, creamy oak, malty chocolate into the finish.

Finish: Medium length. Apple crumble and milk chocolate.

Similar to the Glenlivet 15 but maybe more sherry influence.

65/100

?

Glenfiddich 15 Distillery Edition 51%

Colour: Gold

Body: Full

Nose: Dark chocolate, deep fruity flavours- Blackberry, spice- Cinnamon, bit of nut, caramel, some pepper, honey, peach, raisin.

Water: Fruit softens, more herbal. More oak, barley and cereal.

Taste: Sweet, full dark rich fruit, caramel, vanilla, cinnamon, cream. Juicy inteense fresh fruit.

Water: More spice, then more barley and cereal.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Oakiness coming through and dominates, bit of almond.

Non-chillfiltered Glenfiddich is actually good! Well behaved for 51%.

75/100

?




Quick Recap: So each year, for my friend's birthday, I bring him out to that pub I won't shut up about and buy him and myself a flight of Scotch. Suffice to say, I enjoy his birthday almost as much as he does. If you're following my posts closely, you'll be creepy.... also, you'll remember I did this last year as well.

Now that I've proven I'm so white I'm clearer than a Sailing Scientologist, let's move onto the review.

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Price: N/A

Colour: Faded blood on gold bricks (In literary terms, we call this foreshadowing)

Nose: Cherry, strawberry, strippers, cotton candy, angel food cake, wheat, honey, little butter

Yeah, strippers. This smells like that one stripper who wears a lot of red, and you end up in her chest, and later on everything smells like fake strawberry and candy. Or maybe her name was Candy. 

None the less, it's all red berries and candy. And don't eat the red berries unless you know they are safe, kids (in literary terms, this is a metaphor, calling back to the strippers before, made in an innocuous sense. It's questionable if it will work) 

Taste: Weak, strawberry, Fruite Fruit Punch drink, oak, grape, chocolate, cough syrup

So... weak. Like, me when I was 10 weak (I was a fat kid). There's some fruit punch/cough syrup, but it's mixed into the typical Glenfiddich 12 year, so the oak and grape are hanging out... wondering what the hell happened to the neighborhood after the red scare went through (In literary terms, we have no idea what he's calling back here, and are worried that it may be racist, even though it's not meant to be). 

Finish: Weak Kool-aid, oak, pear, cherry

Short, sad, weak sauce finish. I'd rather buy the 12 year than the Solera.

Conclusion: Well, you gotta start at the bottom before you try any at the top, and in this case, that was very much not a favourite of ours. It was too watered down, too weak, and the Solera cask didn't marry well with the typical Glenfiddich taste. This one was aged in Bourbon, Sherry, Virgin Oak, and then finished in the Solera, and it almost seems like it didn't stay long enough in each one for my tastes. I'd be normally worried that I had skewed my tastebuds before hand, however we had this one second, and ensured it breathed for quite a bit, so I'm moreso inclined to blame it on the low Abv.

72/100

Scotch review #62, Speyside Review #17



Damn, this is tasty one. Ah well. 

Also, that one picture you have looks like a stock photo but the other one looks like you took it at the bar, and unless it's just different because you're in a different country, it looks like an older label to me. Would be interested in knowing when the bar purchased that bottle. 



One was the Stock Photo I could find at the time, and the other one was me taking a picture with my phone. 

I'm sure that they are different country ones. I didn't ask when they bought the bottle, though I'll probably start asking in the future.



I believe that the pub I frequent tends to buy Scotch from various sources, and this could have been one that was sold in another country. I know that if you check Glenfiddich's website, I can't find it on there anymore.

Master of Malt has them at 40% as well. So maybe in this case they sent the overly sweet stuff to Asia, and you got the short end of the stick anyway.

How you'd like it?



I'll have to look for it. Canada received some Canadian Cask version instead, I believe, and honestly it wasn't anything special.

Some day I'll have Glenfiddich 18 again and write a happy review for the Stag.

EDIT: The Distillery edition is available near me, maybe I'll check it out.



Sounds like another swing and a miss for Glenfiddich, but that was a great read!

Also, tartan'd!



Thanks, I've been working on making my reviews more fun to read. It works better if the Whisky isn't that great.

I personally liked Glenfiddich 18. I'll have to review it in the future to make up.
