Glenlivet 16 Nadurra  - Batch 0512T 54.3%

This one was a bargain ?36 and ?reduced to clear? of all things (some stuck up shop in London was trying to clear a few shelves). This is by far my favourite, fuller and just a bit more special and unique than the others.



Glenlivet 16 year Nadurra - 53.4%, $57 

Nose: Malty, pear, sweet grass, slight vanilla.

Taste: Meaty, apple juicy sweet, bready. Medium mouthfeel.

Finish: Short length, meaty stays, bitter comes and leaves quickly.

Notes: good value. Juicy, lovely showing of a CS Glenlivet. It?s too bad they are discontinuing this expression for the NAS. 

83/100



Batch:0512T

ABV: 54.3%

Price: $64

Non-chill filtered

Natural Color

Cask Strength 

Eye: 
Honey

Nose:
Orchard fruit mixed with banana heavy tropical fruit, a sweet maltiness and some oak rise slowly, but with power. Some great notes of baking spices and toasted nuts appear after a few minutes and the oak became a bit stronger the longer it breathed and opened up.

Taste:
Upfront notes of caramel and vanilla mix with oak, citrus and malt. The fruitiness of the nose died down a bit on the palate, but it was still there and mixed well with the baking spices that showed up as it sat and opened up a bit.

Balance, Body & Feel:
A nice delicate balance between the sweet and savory notes with the oak acting as a great earthy support. Full bodied and incredibly easy to drink without any dilution.

Finish:
Long and nutty with strong notes of caramel, citrus, malt and oak.

Score:
91/100

Overall:
I really enjoyed this one and after a few minutes of breathing it began to really open up and began expressing more of the dessert and malt qualities. After about 10 minutes of the glass sitting in my hand it unfurled into a warm and lively whisky that was increadibly fun to drink even without any water, though a splash certainly does help.

@review_bot



/u/TheWhiskeyJug's  reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Please report any issues to /u/FlockOnFire

Developer's edit: the scores are a new feature. But apparently it's going wrong somewhere. I corrected the  'unknown' scores.

Also, the new algorithm caught a non-review post it seems. If this happens frequently I will have a look into that too



I've had this bottle for a while, swapped a few, drank a few, always intended to take some notes and never did. Last night this was dram the fourth, and as I poured I drunjenly noted the rather empty state of the bottle. This review then is a combo of last night's drunj notes and tonight's follow up notes from a very small pour. 

First Impressions: The basement bunker is fairly cold these days, so as I poured I smelled crisp, cold pears

Price: $64.99 on sale last month. Normally $5 more.

Nose: vanilla, a bouquet of flowers, soap stone, perfume. Acetone and oak, almost like a bourbon. Looking for, and cannot find, the famous Speyside apples

Mouthfeel: hot, creamy

Taste: vanilla, cinnamon, and (granny Smith green) apples. Lucky Charms cereal. Malt barley.

Finish: burns for a good while, but the aftertaste is all about them apples

For some reason, my first several pours from the bottle were unimpressive. I subsequently wrote it off as a "won't buy again" Since about halfway through the bottle, however, I have really come to like this scotch. Not sure if that's my changing tastes or if it's oxidation, but it's back on the "buy again" list so we'll find out soon enough. A-

Score: 91.499

Would I buy it again? Yes, next time it's on sale. I believe in February. Until then, I've got one and only one left in the bottle.



The NAS Sherry is raisin syrup, I swear.

However, a little splash of that NAS Sherry into your 16 yr Nadurra and magic happens. Try it!



Glenlivet 16 Nadurra

Strength: 54.2% ABV

Age: 16 years

I received this sample in a swap with /u/jimvarney01 and it is the second that I am reviewing (the first was the Bunnhabhain 12). I've been looking forward to cracking this one, and thought it would be nice to enjoy while catching up on the most recent episode of Sons of Anarchy. Sipping on this dram and taking notes during commercial breaks really helped me take my time with this sample, and I'm only just finishing it up as the 90 minute show comes to an end. Here we go!

Color: Honey and brown sugar.

Nose: Sweet fruit, overripe strawberries, crisp apples, sour apple jolly ranchers, a hint of bananas, graham crackers

Palate: Honey and sherry sweetness, crisp apples, hints of oak, hot on the palate as the high proof flexes, cinnamon spice. It all blends together like warm apple pie.

Body: Oily and the ballsiest of the Glenlivet whiskies that I've tried.

Finish: Tart granny smith apples, fades into moist raisin bread.

Summary: Wow, I love how all of these flavors appear in the nose, palate, and linger in the finish. The apple fruitiness and malty sweetness merge beautifully into a sweet dessert-like experience. The high proof is definitely enjoyable, but man does it burn hot. A little water coaxes out some sweet fruit wine notes in the nose and softens the burn some.

Score: 90/100 (Kick-ass)

Thanks /u/jimvarney01 for the dram!

Edit: Scotch Review #8

Whisky Review #12



Do it. 

I'm pleased with how often my reviews have encouraged you to drink. 

Carry on. 



In fact, they list the Macallan CS strength for like $75, but actually charge $60 because they discount it since it's going out of stock. I feel like I should buy up a couple more bottles

yes, yes you should.



Glenlivet 16 Nadurra, 48% ABV, 1 litre, $90

So this is a bit of an odd one. I bought this bottle as a gift for my dad at a duty-free store, having seen positive reviews of it and knowing that my dad liked his bourbon cask Scotches. However, imagine my surprise when I gift it and take a closer look at the label and notice no mention of "Cask Strength", and in fact a tiny little silvery note stating merrily that it was, in fact, 48%. I was not, let me assure you, amused. 

I've never had great success with Glenlivet to begin with, but this felt like a form of betrayal, as I'd been lead to believe that anything labeled "Nadurra" would, in fact, be Cask Strength and Non-Chill Filtered. The latter it was, but the former it was not. So there was my first complaint about it. Now, onto the review. 

Colour: Light straw

Nose: vanilla, oak, sour green apples, bitterness, alcohol

There's the bourbon cask influence, but it all goes wrong as it develops. Sour apples bite in, then a bitter alcohol burn overwhelms you. Wasn't a huge fan of this.

Taste: sharp bitterness, vanilla, oak, caramel, malt

The first taste of this was overwhelmingly bitter, really ass-kickingly so. This may just be my palate not being used to that type of bitterness, but I didn't find it very pleasant. Eventually, I picked out some of the flavours of the nose, along with a mild caramel and maltiness moving towards the finish.

Finish: long, hot, spicy, sharp, bitter

And the bitterness sticks around, along with the alcohol burn. It really left a bitter aftertaste that wasn't pleasant.

With water: After 2 teaspoons of water, everything was much improved. The bitterness is subdued, the caramel and vanilla malty sweetness comes more to the front, and it's quite drinkable. 

So, scoring. This was not my dram at all. I recognized some aspects of quality in it, but the bitterness ruined it for me - this may be something I start to enjoy as the years go on, but at this junction, not really. As for the bottling itself, I'll be honest - I'm pissed off that I didn't get the cask strength, and I don't think it's 100% my fault. I don't think Glenlivet should be putting out multiple strength bottlings under the same name, especially when the name has become associated with cask strength bottles. I feel tricked into paying a large amount of money for what I thought was a craft expression, but turned out to be just another Travel Retail cash-in.

Score: 77/100

There's quality here, but it's not for me. I initially rated this a few points higher, but writing about it has made me angrier at the perceived dishonesty that the Glenlivet has put into creating this bottle. I would be equally pissed off if I found that my next bottle of Uigeadail was 48% ABV, and I don't think it's a practice that should be condoned. 

So yeah, no to this bottle and no to Glenlivet.



I had to look back to my review of this and noticed that I had a 53.5% ABV bottle. So yeah, sucks about that for you. I personally liked this one but I would prefer the 15 year French Oak reserve. Maybe give that a try? It has less alcohol fire and bitterness, in fact it is a little sweet. Very good for unwinding in the evening.

It's the thought that counts. Did your Dad enjoy it?



The Glenlivet Nadurra

Speyside, 53%

Bottled: September 2011

Batch No.: 0911P

color: gold

nose: oak, red licorice, toffee, rum, cinnamon, oriental spices, pears, lilac

taste: sugared Rice Krispies, honeyed toast, spicy vanilla, sweet pears, marzipan, hint of salt

finish: dry, long

Wonderful exotic nose. Tastewise pretty complex. Very fresh for its age.

87/100



I mentioned a few posts back how one of the local alcohol forums is having a blind tasting competition. I'm doing quite dismally this year, whereas last year I did quite well. I had a feeling this would happen and I'd like to share why, and of course share my tasting notes with you.

Last year I was only just getting into trying and tasting single malts. I'd been drinking whisky for a very long time (since before I should have been :p ), but while I was a student (and before some major tax reforms here), I could only afford to keep about 2 or 3 bottles on hand, so I just bought stuff I'd already tried and knew was good. So by the time last year's competition came around I'd only tried about 25-30 whiskies, so most of my guesses were shots in the dark and that worked pretty well.

This time round I've tasted over 200 whiskies, so when I try and make my guess my mind starts playing tricks on me. "Oh, peat, probably Islay, but..... could be Ledaig" and so forth. Regardless I'm still having a great time. Anyone who gets the chance to participate in such a competition should. For newcomers it's a great chance to learn about your tastes and try some new whiskies, and for more experienced whisky drinkers, it's a good chance to get more in touch with your base senses and remind you what you like and don't like (and to eat a little humble pie).

This particular whisky is from batch 0712U, bottled in 2012.

Aged 16 years. 55.5%BV. Matured in 1st fill bourbon casks. Bottled without chill filtration and at cask strength.

Nose: At first some spirit, needs a little glass time. Hit of tropical fruits and flowers with a mineral note (like wet stone in the sun). Some pine sap and fennel. Fresh paper. Soft peaches. Bit of melon. Woody vanilla.

Palate:  Thick mouthfeel. Coconut ice. Canned pineapple. Tropica. Bit of bitter wood. Lots of woodspice. Cinnamon. Cayenne pepper. Some sweet vanilla and gooseberries on the swallow.

Finish: Long. Tropical fruits. Very bitter wood. Vanilla. Mild salty note.

Rating: Try this.

Global VFM: 3/5

Local VFM: N/A

I really didn't pick up the age of strength of this one. I felt a little intensity on the nose but chalked it up to it being a young spirit. I have tried the 16 year old Nadurra once before and didn't really like it, and still not a fan, despite this being a good batch, but that's just down to my tastes. I guessed it was a Glencadam 10.

EDIT: forgot blog link

Reviewed on my blog: https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2016/04/09/glenlivet-16-nadurra/



Sitting with my fiancee who is going to give her impressions of this and help me review it. She tends to be a fan of the cask-strength bottles on my shelf so we'll see what she thinks. I got this dram in a swap with /u/KaptianKrush a while back when we met up in person in Toronto. My then-girlfriend came with me on the trip to swap this as well as a full bottle swap with /u/Kilrathi downtown TO... it was her first real exposure to my scotch fanaticism or as she puts it, the first time she knew for sure i was a little bit crazy :P (she just saw that and said "did I say a little bit?" ). not sure of the batch number but it's 55% ABV 

Appearance:   pale yellow-straw. 

Nose:  lots of alcohol on the nose. Lots of honey and some light fruit. Apples for sure. Definitely reminiscent of the 12 year nose. Some oakiness. 

Taste:  very hot.  Kind of sour actually. Strange. More honey, spices, little bit of fruit but less than the nose would suggest. 

Finish:  the finish is a bit longer and smoothes out a bit. It's more enticing than the palate. 

Rating: 77  

the nose and finish is pretty good but we didn't really care for the palate. Just too sour and ethanol forward. I wouldn't buy a bottle of this particular batch but others might be better. First time I've had a cask-strength scotch that I didn't really like. 

@Review_Bot scotch



/u/muaddib99's  reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Glenlivet 16 Nadurra

The reigning champion of the Glenlivet, as it is Cask Strength, not the travel retail 48% (aka "What's the point?"). Missing out on the typical feeling of "Is this missing something" that other Glenlivets suffer from, I've been looking forward to trying this for quite awhile.

Note: In order to not hold others up, I did not take my typical amount of time to review this one, and as such will be reviewing it again in the future.

Region: Speyside

Abv: 54.2%

Price: $84.95 (CAD)

Colour: Green Yellow

Nose: Green apple, honey, cardamon, cumin, banana, oak, vanilla

This starts out similar to the 15 yet has more spice and more "Oomph". The spices push aside the typical fruity/flower smells and really show you what this Scotch can do.

Taste: Apple juice, pepper, smoke, taffy, chili, charcoal, lemon candy, coffee, licorice

Wow. Smoke and licorice are what Glenlivet has needed this whole time. There's an abundance of different flavours, all nicely aligned. And it's not watery like other Glenlivets.

Finish: Lots of smoke, cumin, cherry, lemon, tobacco, chewy sticks, cider

There's a chewy, fruity flavour here. I'm going to have to revisit this, as I'm almost missing things, and the power has been shut off, so I'm trying to review while being a good host, and be all smiles.

Conclusion: If the other Scotches were kid's shows watched by Adults, this has viewer discretion advised. This is the Breaking Bad of Scotch: the one who knocks. My score may change when I have a chance to fully appreciate this one, yet for now, this is the one who knocks.

84/100

