Glenmorangie Ealanta

46% Non Chill Filtered

Ealanta which is Gaelic for skilled and ingenious. During the 1990?s Glenmorangies head of distillation and whisky creation Bill Lumsden travelled to the Ozark Mountains in Missouri. There he found a number of superb slow growth American white oak trees. The porous oak wood, was air dried for over two years but never seasoned with other whisky which allows the spirit to extract maximum flavour. The casks where heavily charred before being filled with spirit.

Colour: Usual caramel whisky colour.

Nose: Strong lashings of vanilla, citrus, banana bread, pineapple, soft caramel, malt, oak, cloves and other sweet spice.

Body: Lots of heavy slow moving tears. Lightly viscous. Oily but not heavily mouth coating.

Taste: Quite a heavy spice upfront but quite sweet. Very warming especially on the tongue. My mouth is tingling all over. Citrus peel, oak, vanilla, banana bread batter, honey, vanilla frosting to go with the banana bread, bran cereal, light nutty flavour, cherry, bitter berries. More tropical fruits and bran over time. 

Finish: Flows so effortlessly from taste to finish you don?t even realise you've swallowed (insert sex joke here). More lashings of vanilla, citrus and tropical fruits. Slightly bitter. Light oak. It jumps and dances around your mouth delivering more lashings of diminishing flavours. Even a few minutes later you can detect the main flavours of oak, vanilla and citrus. After about an hour? It becomes sweeter and lingers for longer.

Overall: I can see why Jim Murray gave this whisky such high praise. However TBH I feel like some of those marks come from things apart from the flavours and aromas. NCF, higher % and the overall effort and care taken in creating the whisky all of which are things Jim talks about often in his bible. While I do agree that they are important steps in creating a good whisky. I dunno. It?s a great whisky that delivers heaps of aromas, flavours and a great finish and is an impressive whisky and something worth seeking out for a try but whisky of year? Maybe not.

91/100

Aussies I'm open for sample swaps on this.



Great review! I love this stuff, and just a few weeks ago I bought four more bottles online because I found them for $99. The 2014 Whisky Bible comes out and immediately it was $130 on the same site.

I agree that "best in the world" is a stretch, but I think that naming any whisky "best in the world" is a stretch. I'm glad that it's a relatively available whisky and (if people don't start gouging) is still easily worth $120-$140 a bottle. 



Psst...

{looks around}

Try Pearsons.



I just checked the place I bought it from-- they had 4 in stock when I cleared them out, earlier this week they had updated their stock to 52 bottles, and I just checked again and they're out of it. 

Give it a few weeks perhaps and then try again once they hype dies down.

Crazy that last week this stuff was available everywhere and today it's gone. It took me months to decide to stock up; if it was really worth it or not. If I'd waited another week I'd have been screwed.



I just picked up a bottle of this 20 minutes ago. I've been looking forward  to it. 

Edit: This was a very good bottle. I will agree with the hivemind of /r/scotch and say that I like something with a little more bite to it, but I found this bottle to be smooth and delicious. Also it served as a gateway for a new friend to enter the world of malts. 



I can see why Jim Murray gave this whisky such high praise.

Not forgetting that Jim is a personal shareholder in Glenmorangie/LVMH, and any bottle he gives the 'whisky of the year' award to is going to go gangbusters... hmm



It's really that good?

I've tried four of Glenmoragie's offerings, and have not been impressed at all. Is this different from their other whiskies, or do we just have a difference of opinion when it comes to the distillery? 



Glenmorangie Ealanta, $110

This is a 19 year old whisky aged in virgin oak casks and is the first of their "Private Editions" that I've tried.

Color: Deep Gold

Nose: Oak, stone fruits, honey, port, cream, tangerine, cake, vanilla, nutmeg. Once you taste it, the almond/nutty aroma is prominent in the nose.

Taste: Sweet and succulent. Deep and full bodied. Cream, citrus, candied almonds, oak, vanilla, brown sugar.

Finish: Incredibly smooth. Nutty flavors linger with a little of the citrus and cream notes.

Conclusion: My second favorite of the Glenmorangies I've tried (next to the Astar). Very rich and creamy. It reminds me a lot of the Nectar D'or but amped up. It's a very complex bottle but the price is a little high for what it is. The nutty/citrus/cream taste is what defines this whisky and makes it a standout.

93/100

EDIT: UPDATED TO 93 FROM 91



Hello /r/scotch - here with my fifteenth review. I bought this at release for $99. It's 19 years old, aged in virgin american white oak casks, and bottled at 46%. It was listed as whisky of the year by Jim Murray in the last whisky bible.

Nose The virgin oak is quite strong - definitely not accustomed to that in a scotch. It smells like oak wood chips are in your glass. Delicate barley, cracked black pepper, orange marmalade, and a little smoke from the barrel char round out the nose.

Mouthfeel Great - oily/smooth

Palate Again lots of oak, but it doesn't take over the whole palate. Juicy golden raisins, slightly buttery, pepper, and this interesting honeydew melon note which is both a little sweet & spicy.

Finish An odd, but interesting mix. That heavy oak lingers, but it gets even fruitier here - apricots, grape jelly. Quite a surprise to have such a sweet finish as it wasn't that sweet on the palate, but a nice surprise in the end.

Balance Fairly oaky as expected, but all the fruits really strike a nice balance.

Rating 88/100 - A very nice Glenmorangie - probably my favorite of their private editions (I haven't opened my Sonnalta PX yet though). 

Value for the money If you can find one of these at retail ($99), I would definitely recommend it. Not just because it's a limited release, but rarely do you get to try a scotch matured in virgin oak, and it's pretty damn good to boot.



I'm jelly :P

Looking forward to it! Just picked up a GlenDronach 12 today, so I got that going for me, which is nice. It's going out of production.



This stuff rocks! I'm going to be a total whisky hipster here and say that I tried it way back in the beginning of the year, loved it, and toyed with buying a few extras to have around. After finally succumbing to temptation and buying four extras for ~$90 each, Jim Murray named it whisky of the year and stocks evaporated and prices nearly doubled. 

So glad I can enjoy this for years to come, and so glad you got to enjoy some as well! 







Glenmorangie Ealanta    93

Before Jim Murray crowned this 4th Private Edition his best of 2013 (the 2014 bible), its reviews were somewhat mixed.  My own opinions were not mixed at all, when I first tasted it late that summer: I?d found my personal new favorite non-finished/non-peated whisky, and I had planned to stock up? before it suddenly disappeared.  Age is 19, and it stands as another fantastic example of experimentation paying off.

Similar malts: Glen Garioch Virgin Oak, Benriach 19 Virgin American Oak. Balvenie Tun 1509.



Good evening, /r/Scotch! I had an epidural injection last week in my spine. It was a really strange feeling, but not painful. At one point I asked the doctor if there was anything in my body at the moment and he said, "Well there's an 8-inch needle stuck through your body into your spine at the moment." I felt nothing other than a slight internal grind as the needle worked it's way down my spine.

Anyhow, the point is I've been getting better and reducing my benzo and narcotic intake, so I've been able to imbibe a bit more. Consequently, last Saturday Binny's had an amazing 15% off everything in the store sale. While picking up a bottle of Aberlour 12 NCF I had previously ordered, I wandered down the single malt aisle, and noticed that they had the Glenmorangie Ealanta with a "reduced!" sign on it, marked down to $89.99 from $119.99. No idea why, but I'm no dummy, so I plopped it in my basket (after opening it and inspecting to ensure it wasn't corked), and moved along. After the 15% off it cost me $76.50! What a steal!

After getting that fantastic deal I simply had to give it a try, so I did. Here's the result!

Glenmorangie Ealanta 19 year old

Price: $76.50

Color: Whisky.

Region: Highland

ABV: 46%

Nose: Bursting citrus, toffee crunch, and spiced homemmade apple sauce. There's a very faint tint of menthol and a much stronger Worther's Original's butterscotch. Do I have to drink it? Can I just smell it forever? What if the taste isn't as good? I don't want this nose to end. Truly amazing. 

Palate: Disaster averted-- it's wonderful! There's a nuttiness that wasn't present on the nose-- almonds perhaps? There's buttercream frosting, dried fruits, spice, and tons of orange zest. It's smooth and silky, and I don't want to swallow it, but I'm going to so I can drink more.

Finish: Short and sweet. And I mean sweet as in sugary sweet. For 46% it's suprisingly smooth and the alcohol doesn't overpower any of the nuance. Behind that sweetness are touches of spice-- ginger and something else. Dark chocolate as well.

97/100

Overall? Amazing. It's a lovely finish to a delightful meal but can also stand alone as an after-work drink to decompress. I'm a fan of Glenmorangie in general, but this was truly a treat.

(Oh, and the painting in the background is of the Bikini Atoll. My brother finished it yesterday.)



He does, it's his full-time job. (The painting, anyway; I'm the one that sells it.)

He also does commissions. But yeah... he's been living with us for a few months and PAINTINGS, PAINTINGS EVERYWHERE! And they're pretty big, too. This is on the smaller end at 30"x30".

He doesn't have a website yet (completely my fault, but my paying clients have to take precendence) but should be soon, and he's finally agreed to join a social network. He picked G+ because no one he knows from high school is on it haha.

If you want to see more of his work minus the whisky here's a link to a GDrive folder containing some images of his work.

Also, he doesn't charge crazy amounts of money and loooves commissions. 



Nice review. And as someone who is constantly afraid of needles and still getting over it, I have to brag that I only slightly felt dizzy reading the beginning of it.

I'll have to hunt around for a dram of this when I get a chance. How would you compare it to the Quinta Rubana?



Ah, sorry about the needle stuff, didn't think about the needle-averse when I wrote it. 

Compared to the Quinta Ruban it's a bit spicier and less buttery, and much more complex overall. I prefer this to the QR. (If you want a sample and are interested in an /r/ScotchSwap send me a PM and we can work something out.)



Don't worry about the needle stuff, I've been getting better at it. I may be getting a new tattoo in a few months (assuming I don't keep finding whiskies to buy), so that should help my aversion.

I'll PM you soon.



great review, congrats on your score!  I am partial to Glenmorangie and the less smoke / peat expressions so this is now on my radar to keep an eye out for.  

As someone who was stuck like a pin cushion as a sickly child I think I may have to go have a scotch to shake off the trauma from reading the needle part of this review, it literally my my stomach turn over, haha...



If you find a bottle, buy it! It's truly excellent. 

As a kid I, too, was a pincushion. I had to have blood drawn daily (too young to remember the reason) for two solid years, so at this point I don't even feel needles going in. The lidocaine they injected first and the norco and valium they had me on already made it even less apparent that they were digging around my back with spikey things.



There's a nuttiness that wasn't present on the nose-- almonds perhaps?

Hehe. My review was much shorter and basically consisted of "I like almonds." I gave it a 95/100. It competes with the Springbank 18 as the best whisky in my collection.... It more often than not wins. I'm very jealous that you were able to find it on sale.



I think we need to do another swap soon... This one is about $150 AUD here.

Great review!



I just received my second swap from you today-- thanks! (Expect a post on /r/ScotchSwap tomorrow.)

It's fantastic and I still can't believe that I got the deal I did on it!



Review #67: Glenmorangie Ealanta

I believe this is 19 years old. This year's Whisky of the Year for Jim Murray. According to Dr. Bill Lumsden these virgin oak casks he found were experimental. He found them in the warehouses a few years ago and kept an eye on them. One correction Dr. Bill Lumsden said also is that the casks were heavily toasted and not heavily charred. 

Color: amber

Nose: cream, vanilla, oranges, honey, toffee, oak, lychee, apples, lime, nuts

Taste: initially salty, tea, rosemary, oak, hint of cream, hint of vanilla, toffee, coffee, pineapples, hot, licorice, 

Taste with a drop of water: more vanilla, cream and toffee

Finish: salty, tea, coffee, herbs, sweet

Conclusion: I find this to be complex. It tastes like a bourbon yet there are scotch characteristics in it. Best of both worlds? Despite being aged in virgin oak, I expected it to be sweeter. Although, I think there must be something wrong with my palate also. Most of the bourbon aged Scotch I've been having lately has been tasting less sweet and more oak-y and tea-like. 

Score: 87



Time to start opening up the good stuff. I was very excited for this release (despite the price) given that I drink bourbon and this was entirely matured in charred new oak barrels for 19 years. 

Review # 28

Glenmorangie Ealanta (19 years old, 92 proof)

Nose: clove and jack fruit, orange peel, lemon zest and meringue, warm cider and cinnamon, gardenias and chutney, bay leave and rosemary, honey and pie crust, key lime pie, vanilla, marzipan

Taste: honey, orange juice and ginger upfront, followed by coriander, cardamom, black tea and lemon pith; viscous and oily, moderate tannin 

Finish: medium length of angostura bitters, pith, almond milk, and candied orange gummies 

Overall: I expected something more along the lines of Pappy Van Winkle but instead I have a more robust 10 year old. A fantastic nose: more citrus, savory and herbaceous spices and a bit of creaminess and nuttiness. I was expecting a cream bomb, but it may just need to open up. A bit disappointed in the taste and finish, but only because it was relatively clean, easy and simple.  A fantastic quality malt that trumps the 10 year in flavor and complexity despite being very similar in accessibility. I only wish it was cheaper. 

Rating: Epic (92/100)



While I love the bourbon style oak and wood notes, but something about glenmorangie's "Top note" just before the finish puts me off.  I find it throughout their line.  It's almost a metallic mint, and not in a good way.  The sensation I get in my mouth is that of placing a bag of sour patch kids open on the table and just thinking about eating a handful.  That "pre-sour" cringe is similar to the FEEL (not taste) I get when drinking Glenmorangie.  Ealanta is great otherwise.  I'd love to see a sherry bomb aged in new oak, possible Aberlour?  I know Macallan has their new oak line but I refuse to buy them due to their business shennanigans.  

The price of this is borderline outrageous too.  I keep making the same mistake with Glenmorangie bottles.  They have quite the marketing team.  



The 10 year is a deal I think but other than that they do indeed market their higher level malts too much. 

I don't know how you would age a sherry bomb in new oak. The use of exclusively sherry is what makes it entirely a sherry bomb.



I think what makes sherry so good though is that it is a combo of new oak and sherry wine. Sherry wine doesn't leach as much from the wood as say bourbon would so not only do you get a lot of wine notes with a sherry bomb but very woody notes as well.

I am a bit confused that the wood didn't come through as much with the Ealanta but I am sure it will come out later as it opens up. When the vanilla note came partially through, it was glorious.



I stand corrected on my sherry comment!  With Ealanta, I believe the environment found in Scotland is the culprit for the lower than expected oak notes.  I would bet that if we put that barrel of malt in a kentucky warehouse, it would be near undrinkable and over-oaked. 

That being said, 19 years is a long time no matter how you cut it.  Even a comparable aged standard style scotch has more oak than I found in the Ealanta.  Take Highland Park 18, for example.  It's main draw for me is the wet-oak flavor that's pervasive. 

What I would expect happened is when Glenmorangie threw these barrels in storage, they took steps to place them in a low energy location, away from vast heat fluctuations.  Glenmorangie is usually a very soft, nuanced, decadent, and mild juice so they were probably worried about the oak overpowering their white-dog.  Just a guess though.  



Maybe. 

Some Bourbon's do age well when put on the bottom floor of a Kentucky warehouse, maybe would even better with pure malt. Pappy Van Winkle, with softer wheat flavors, does quite well at 20 years. I guess we will find out when Woodford Reserves Masters Collection comes out this year. :X 



Thanks to /u/devoz for the sample. 

Appearance: Amber +1

Nose: Tropical fruits, lots of vanilla, very fresh and floral, fabric softener, some mild wood spice on the nose.

Taste: Quite rich and honeyed; very dense and oily on the palate. Layers of sweet fruit and floral complexity, with a backbone of vanilla and tannins.

Finish: A wonderfully rich and fruity aftertaste. More of the more unique finishes I've come across.

Score: 90/100

A wonderful expression of Glenmorangie. The virgin oak has definitely given the typical Glenmorangie fruitiness layers of vanilla and wood spice. Wonderfully intricate and complex.



Do people not like this one because they think it's weird, or because it's easily replaced by something else?  

By "not like" I moreso mean it can still be acquired 18 months later for $150.  And that's after it won some award by some guy, which occasionally means something. 

I like it.  I have several extras.  I'm glad it's not a universal hit.  I never quite understood why it's not at least a little more desirable though.



I like it.  I have several extras.  I'm glad it's not a universal hit.  I never quite understood why it's not at least a little more desirable though.

I think you're mistaken.  It's extremely sought after stuff and generally very well liked.  It disappeared off the shelves here and in most places a very long time ago.  Consider yourself lucky that it hasn't around you because that isn't normal.



Submission added to database (but not yet archived in the official Whisky Review Archive, please do so manually).

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire