Last week I went to a bar that wasn't one of my normal haunts, and I spotted the entire GlenDronach range on the shelf. The 15 has been receiving rave reviews from Scotchit, so I figured I'd order a dram and see what I get out of my first GlenDronach.

Review #23: GlenDronach 15 Revival
Speyside, 46% ABV

Nose: dry sherry, cherry, raspberry, pineapple, stewed fruits, raisins, fruitcake

Very, very sherried with deep aromas of stewed fruits. However, it's not my favourite sherried nose - I find a'Bunadh to have a bit more spice to the nose, and not just fruitcake.

Taste: raisins, spice, oak, sherry, raspberry

The raspberry note is kind of interesting here - it's distinctive enough to make you notice it, and pretty rare. The rest of the taste is pretty standard sherried whisky. I'm not a huge fan of sherry, so it's kind of lost on me.

Finish long with cinnamon, dates, raisins, a bit bitter and sickly sweet after a few sips

Probably my favourite part of this whisky. The cinnamon gives a nice burn at the back of your throat, which I enjoyed. However, it gets a bit bitter after you've had a few sips in a row, which takes a while to dissipate. 

Conclusion: A nice sherried whisky. No real off-notes, just fruit, a bit of cinnamon/nutmeg spice and a bit of oak influence. It was inoffensive to me, but probably a winner for a lot of people. 

Score: 82/100

A point above Glenfarclas.



Glendronach Revival, 46% ABV

Please excuse the title, I was inspired by this post. Thanks to ayedfy for the sample!

Nose: Cloyingly sweet. Ripe grapes and berries. Marmalade. Dried dates and figs. Rubber and burning matches.

Taste: Light, vinegary and sweet. Initially smooth and creamy. Stewed fruits and honey roasted nuts. Tawny port. Tart grape skin and orange skin. Oak and more rubber. 

Finish: Bitter coffee with brown sugar. Grapefruit and a pinch of cinnamon. Dryish and ashy. Medium, tannic and rubbery.

Ralfy picked this as whisky of the year and I have to respectfully disagree with his choice. This reminded of the Laddie 21 which is also fully matured in Oloroso. Too sweet and too sulphurous.

Luckily I got to try a sample first because I was going to buy a bottle.

78/100

Review #56, thanks for reading.



It was okay, I'm glad I got to try it. I might get the Octarine because it's bourbon matured. I haven't written off the distillery.

I also have a sample of the Allardice coming sometime this week.



The Allardice I had was sulfured, but the Revival I had was not.  I think there are good and bad bottlings coming out of Glendronach, but most of the ones I've had have been fantastic and unsulfured.

Hope you have better luck with your other picks.



What would you consider sweet but not too sweet? Like Balcones One I find too sweet with overwhelming vanilla flavor, but I rather like all the Glenmorangies I've tried which seem to have strong fruit flavors, which you describe with the Glendronach Revival. I also like the Springbank 18 which had that dried dates flavor as well....

Maybe what I'm saying here is that I need to hit ayedfy up for a sample.



Sample from /u/myanonymouslife.  46% ABV.  Aged in Spanish Oloroso Sherry Casks

Nose: Carmel, icing, frosting, vanilla, toffee

Palate: Thick, almost syrupy.  Sherry bomb and a half.  This is really rich and big and sweet.  Dare I say a bit too much of a good thing?

Finish: Drying, nice and long.  Sherry fades to cedar and vanilla.  Maybe a bit of chocolate

Score: 83/100

I like it, but its almost feels overdone somehow.  Unbalanced.  The finish is superb though.  If anyone is looking for a massive sherry bomb then give this a try for sure.



I'm a big fan of the big sherry scotches, and particularly fond of this distillery and Glengoyne. 

I'm very happy to have about 2/3 of a bottle of this left, as it is bloody hard to find now.



Glendronach 15 Revival

(46%, NCF, natural colour, matured in oloroso sherry casks, ~$104 CAD)

?

Nose: Grapes, figs, orange peel, cocoa, vanilla, oak, nutmeg

Taste: Strawberry, plum, figs, mint, cocoa, oak, vanilla wafers

Finish: Orange, cocoa, walnut, oak

? 

The nose is fruity to start, an interesting sweet and sour interplay of notes with a big powdered chocolate/cocoa presence midway and some vanilla, oak and spices bring up the rear. Creamy texture. Slightly fruitier up front in the taste but also more tart, otherwise carries from the nose quite consistently. The powdery cocoa is more decadent now. A big and slightly bitter oak presence emerges alongside the cocoa to headline the finish. 

It?s almost silly how fast this bottle is disappearing. A major step up from the 12, the light sweet and sour mix offers a refreshing change of pace for a sherried whisky. Fantastic through the nose and taste, the bitter oakiness in the finish is the only weak point for me. Still, I could happily have this as my daily drinker for the rest of my life. Hope it?s as good when it finally comes back in a bit. 

?

86/100



Actually, it's a good thing that i use the whisky network as my personal dumping ground. From pics it looks like a general Canadian thing for the 15's as only one was from Quebec: http://i.imgur.com/HxWahh3.jpg

Also note that it's on the 12 as well, which wasn't from Quebec. Oddly the finished stuff, the cask strength batches and the single casks ignore the bilingual part completely.



I prefer the Parliament, but that's because I tend to enjoy sherry bomb scotches.  The Parliament was finished in a mix of Oloroso & PX Sherry casks, and they definitely lend a strong influence to the Glendronach stock.  The Revival is also sherry-influenced, but not (in my opinion) as strongly.

But I didn't sample them back to back, so it's tough to make a definitive call.  In my memory, the Parliament was something special, and the Revival was simply very tasty.  



Samples came to me courtesy of /u/mynamesbingo, thank you! Figured since I got these two Dronnies I?d do a head to head and see which I liked more!

Glendronach Revival 15yr ? 46%

Glendronach 15 Revival

Speyside, 46%

color: auburn

nose: sherry, floral, fruit salad, spiced bread, toffee, lemon cake, hint of nut chocolate

taste: heavy, dominant sherry, raisins, stollen, nut chocolate, blood oranges, peppermint, sweet malt

finish: baguette, sherry, celery stalks, warms the throat, long

85/100



Last night my regular specialist liquor store (one of the small handful in Israel) held a really great tasting of the Glendronach range (12, 15, 18, 21 and a 19 year old single cask) as well as 2 Benriachs which the importer has started regularly distributing (Heart of Spew NAS & 16).

The evening was really fun with good food and good company, but the real highlight came at the end when after tasting the 7 whiskies listed, the brand ambassador who'd just come in from Scotland said he had a surprise and pulled out a bottle of Benriach 35 year old. Needless to say it was a fantastic evening with a happier ending than a Thai massage. 

Glendronach 15 Revival

Aged 15 years, 46%ABV, Matured in Oloroso Casks,  NCA, NCF

Nose:  Dry sherry funk. Pecans. Figs. Nutmeg. Cinnamon. Wet leaves. Hint of sulphur. Prunes. Plum wine. Raisin bran. 

Palate: Copper. Raisins. Fig jam. Bitter wood. Cough syrup. 

Finish: Long-mediun. Tannins. Dry wood. Sherry, actual. Woody nuts. Figs. 

Rating: Classic

Conclusions: Glendronach isn't really my style, but always willing to try new whiskies. Their range is very good in terms of quality. The 12 was quite sweet due to the PX influence, felt a tad unbalanced. The 15 and 18 were quite similar (in more than just profile ;) ) ,classic sherried whisky, dry, fruity, though I found the 18 a good deal spicier. The 21 was nice,  sweet but better balanced than the 12 by far. As for the single cask, I reviewed a similar cask a little while ago,  same opinion,  too sweet for my tastes but very good quality. 

Now the Benriachs were more my thing. Heart of Speyside was pretty much new make with just enough barrel time to change colour. Leaving it at that. The 16 was fantastic. Loads of tropical fruit, floral notes and honey. Everything you'd expect from an ex bourbon speysider. 

And the 35. Well. It was fantastic. Never worth the price asked, but fantastic. Bursting with all sorts of herbal and fruity notes which is surprising given its age, and so we'll balanced. Really made the night for all of us. 



Repost from last year or so.

Greetings, malt mates. Thatguy here with a review of Ralfy?s Whisky of the Year for 2012, Glendronach 15 Year Revival. 

The name of this Glendronach is quite fitting as the distillery has gone through a few different owners in recent years finally settling in with The Benriach Distillery Company Ltd. in 2008. Since then, their releases have been critically acclaimed. 

Glendronach 15 Year Revival - 46% ABV (750 ml)

This is an incredibly interesting whisky and it?s certainly not easy to drink. It took me a solid hour to get this review done because I needed time to sort through the complexity of this beast. I docked this score a few points because I don?t like the smell of coffee which is somewhere in this nose and because I?m not sure I like the rubber note. The taste and finish are nice but the nose is a huge part of the experience and can?t be ignored if something is up. Still a very solid offering.

SCORE: 86/100



Glendronach 15 Revival, 46% ABV

Nose: Thick dark and heavy. sweet syrupy sherry. Definitely a fruit heavy nose with tons of oranges, grapes and cherries topped of with tons of milk chocolate, walnuts and brown sugar. Definitely wine heavy but also similar to a rum. Despite the heavy sweetness it also carries an odd savory character with balsamic vinegar, salty meat, basil, tomatoes, cloves.

Palate: Chevy warm caramel. Vanilla, cola, very heavy oak and spice, citrus leaning towards orange, marzipan, grassy.

Finish: Medium, marmalade, coffee, dark chocolate, sweet malt, the sherry maintains itself considerably.

Score: 86/100

No doubt this is complex, delicious and satisfying, but you have to be a sherried whisky fan, have this mostly during colder seasons, or be in the mood for it.



Hey Scotchit, glad I can participate in the Community Review with you guys. This will be my 32nd Review. 

Glendronach 15 Revival, 46% ABV, $90 for at Total Wine

93/100

This definitely gives the Macallan 18 I tried a good run for its money. The difference? I save $100 or more sticking with the Glendronach 15. The Glendronach also has a heavier and thicker nose to it, whereas I would describe the Macallan as a thinner nose (if that makes sense). On top of that, this bottle may very well be 19 years old based on this article (mine was bottled in 2014): http://wordsofwhisky.com/glendronach-is-a-lot-older-than-the-label-says/

Overall a really well crafted bottle of scotch. I'm glad I finally pulled the trigger and picked this up. I'm not a huge sherry fan, but sherried scotches like this, Macallan 18, and Aberlour 12 Non Chill Filtered are starting to change that.



Review from a few months back. Looking forward to seeing this revival revived.  

Great. Just a great heavily sherried nose, with servings of nuts and cream choc.

Lovely, but a bit weak. Fantastic rich wine and oakspice. Interesting notes of woody-bean: coffee and bitter chocolate especially. Makes for a winner.

Great whisky. Very powerful oak, and delicious dusty sherry. Spicy, Chocolaty thick flavours throughout. If this was CS it would be into the 95+ region. A steal at currant prices. 92/100



Just throwing my thoughts into the ring a bit late:

** Mouthfeel*: thin but oily

Taste: the nose carries directly to the initial palate, with strong sherry notes, malt ethanol, raisins, etc. A bit of moist oak, Christmas fruit cake, and cocoa

Finish: oak and dry sherry dance a tango on the way out, with just a minimal black pepper burn

In reading other reviews I see mention that this is reminiscent of cognac, and I can see the point. A sherry bomb to be sure; this is just outside of the range of my preference. 

Score: 79/100 (C+)

Would I buy it again? I'll pass, though if I'm ever craving a sherry bomb, I reserve the right to change my mind



A close friend of mine bought my favorite whisky for me as a going away present, so it?s pretty cool that it so happens to be the revival. I also decided that this would be a good way to start reviewing on scotchit. 

About the whisky: bottled 2013, great color not that actually matters, and cork still intact. 

Abv: 46%

Price: $87.99

Nose:   Sherry, dried fruit like raisins, cranberries, dried orange peel. 

Palate: Once again sherry, oily quite surprising, dark chocolate, dried apricot, dried raisins, chocolate covered     orange, toffee.

Finish:  The finish is strong with this one. Reminds me of unsweetened dark chocolate almost, but with an orange essence. 

This dram never disappoints my palate. Really enjoy anything by Glendronach, and I can?t wait to get my hands on single cask bottle.

90/100



Is it that time already? Sheesh. From a previous post. I may revisit tonight:

GlenDronach Revival, 15 years, 46%, 80$
When the birds come out
Nose:  cinnamon, citrus, toffee
Taste: creamy fruit, sweetbread, almond, saltwater taffy
Finish: sweet banana peppers, toffee
Rating: 83/100
Final Thoughts: Standard sherry bomb, but without the punch of some of the other favorites. Totally drinkable, a little pricey in my area.  



Copied from my original review.

I bought a bottle of this scotch on a whim right around Christmas since I had heard good things about it. I remember cracking the bottle with nervous anticipation to try...

GlenDronach 15 Revival

Strength: 46%

Color: Deep brown. 

Nose: Raisins, spice, and sweet syrupy goodness. There's a little nuttiness too. 

Palate: Sherry sweetness, followed by a mild salty bitterness that I quite like. Cocoa powder delivers a lovely decadence. Oaky and resinous, it tastes older than its 15 years. 

Finish: Warm and long and tingly. Bitter dark chocolate.

Summary: Boy am I glad I got this bottle. I put a helluva dent in it the week that I bought it. Now, months later it's still exactly as good as it was the first time. 

Score: 93/100 



Community Review: GlenDronach 15yo Revival

Color: Dark mahogany

Nose: Incredible sweet sherry, tons of raisins and prunes. Intense aromas, almost like a cognac. I can rarely ?smell? chocolate in a whisky, but it?s definitely in this one. One of the best noses I have witnessed to date.

Palate: Very sweet! Cr?me br?l?e, more ripe black berries and raisins. I recon 46% abv is quite the minimum to tame these bouquet of flavors.

Finish: Goes on and on. As the sweetness is subsiding, the finish becomes drier.

Conclusion: Probably one of the best sherried whiskies out there right now. Very affordable too! Sometimes, I hear of sulfur in GlenDronach, but either I?m not sensitive to it, or, from the three different expressions I have tasted so far, I was lucky to have tasted from unsulfured batches. Who knows?

92/100



Glendronach 15 Revival

Speyside, 46%

color: auburn

nose: sherry, floral, fruit salad, spiced bread, toffee, lemon cake, hint of nut chocolate

taste: heavy, dominant sherry, raisins, stollen, nut chocolate, blood oranges, peppermint, sweet malt

finish: baguette, sherry, celery stalks, warms the throat, long

85/100



Review #13: Community Review GlenDronach 15 Revival

Quick facts:  15yo - 46% - ? 70? in Germany

Situation: Sitting on the sofa, listening to 'Making Movies' by Dire Straits and live reviewing the GlenDronach 15 for the community review. Actually, I wanted to review it yesterday already and play the European timezone card and be about the first to post...well until I had to go to the dentist yesterday evening, which made it kinda hard to taste or actually feel anything. Anyway, I had the dram in question before but so far I wasn't impressed - at least not so much as it tends to get praised around here ? but I tend to need some time with sherried whiskies before they work their magic. Since this one is matured solely in Oloroso casks and it has a nice abv, I should really enjoy this...while I'm writing my intro-mumbojumbo the Glendronach is patiently sitting in his glas and fills the room with a tart 'winey' smell. The rest of the nose is currently covered by my notebook in which I usually write my notes, but I'm excited about the drink so let's go!

Nose: the tart winey note is all but gone once I lifted the 'lit' on the glass, it's sweet, sweet dark fruits like raisins and dates, brown sugar with some cinnamon and a (for me very typical with Oloroso casks) chocolatey note so while the Straits start into Expresso Love I fall into this nose and love it. After a while hints of the tartness return albeit not very prominent.

Palate: the entry is like I imagine raisin-juice would taste, very (sugar-like) sweet but combined with a rather light mouthfeel, e.g. not as syrup-like mouthfeel other sherrybombs tend to have sometimes, raisins, caramel, milk chocolate, oaky vanilla, pepper

Finish: a peppery note on the sides as well as the front top of the mouth together with the sugary sweetness which occupies the rest of the mouth stays for a medium to long length

Final thoughts: Well, this was better than the first times I had this, still I'm indecisive what to make out of it as for my personal taste the palate is might be to sweet and the sweet aspect overpowers subtleties which might be (or, are if you look at some of the other reviews!) under that thick layer of sweetness. On the other hand this sweetness is not aligned with a thick syrup-like mouthfeel but has a rather 'light' touch to it. The longer I drink it, the more I feel there is something missing to counteract the sweetness like e.g. the spices the Aberlour 12 NCF brings to the game or (my preferred version) the smoke the Kilchoman Sherry Cask carries. Not sure yet but there are a few sips left. Ok, the longer I drink the more aspects the palate reveals even though they tend to come from the same direction (sweetish, creamy...), so the more time you devote to the GlenDronach 15 Revival there more you'll get out of this malt, still for me it's good but if I'd be asked to have this or a random Bourbon sample I would opt for the Bourbon ? yeah I know mea culpa. Maybe it's just a phase or the weather or...

Score: 85/100



Review #2: Community review, GlenDronach 15 Revival, 46%
This was my first 'sherry bomb', largely because of the positive things I read here. Didn't know whisky could be so fruity till then, and I remember being very (pleasantly) surprised at the time. 

Nose: Loads of dried fruit: raisins, dates, figs, as well as some blackberries, blackcurrants, and a hint of strawberry and cherry. There's some chocolate and honey, but the fruit takes center stage. 

Palate: Juicy warm raisins, soaked in rum, more of those dark berry notes, strawberry and a tanginess I didn't get on the nose reminiscent of orange zest. Following the fruit assault there's burnt sugar, chocolate and then drier oak notes and pepper.

Finish: More burnt sugar, quickly giving way to much drier oak flavours, pepper and a bitterness I can't quite place my finger on. 

Summary and rating: The range of fruit notes is quite staggering, and it is clearly a quality dram. However, currently I am not a massive fan of sherried whisky. Too much sweetness tend a to puts me off and I struggle to detect flavours other than dark/dried fruit. 85/100.



Review: Glendronach 15 Revival

Colour: Deep Amber, reddish brown

Nose: BAM Sherry, who would have thought looking at the colour? haha, dried fruit notes, liking this so far, dates, sultanas. vanilla comes out after 3-4 minutes in the glass, I swear theres a burnt toffee note but I might be wrong

Palate:creamy sherry, definitely soft sherry, lots more dried fruit, lovely mouthfeel, some oak, now feeling bitter chocolate after 3-4 sips (at least 72% cocoa, i'm thinking of those ghiradeli squares my sister in law always gets from costco)

Finish: Nice Finish here! medium length, turns dry, sweet golden syrup start, plums, apricots turning dried apricots here as well

Rating: 90, the finish and the taste get it over the line here

Thoughts: Right so we all know the bottle i'm looking at isn't 15 years old right? I bought this in 2013, knock off 15 years and its 1998, when the place was mothballed, so its at least 17 years (could be more, I've had a dram of this in Melbourne from whisky & alement they swore tasted 20 years old). I'm liking the GD range, i would buy this again, paid $101AUD for this one.



Copenne Pasta, from an old review:  

Intro: GlenDronach 15 Revival, an Oloroso-sherry bomb I sampled at a tasting hosted by the amazing whisk(e)y bar, Delilah's. 46%, $80.  

Color: Medium coffee.  

Nose: Raisin-sherry oak and cinnamon.  

Dram: Popping fruity sherry, ripe grapes, strawberries, red pepper, ginger, warming but smooth.  

Finish: Honey, nutmeg, grass, almond, cream, heavy oak.  

Conclusions: Just great! A wonderful upgrade from the also-good 12 Original. 90/100



Previously posted review here

Glendronach 15 Revival

Nose: butter toffee, chocolate, citrus, blueberry sauce, natural sugar (raw cane sugar), mild hint of the ABV on the nose as well, and a touch of sulfur?

Palate: nice oily mouth feel, again the blueberries from the nose, melted butter, vanilla, a burned wax or rubber element ? not an unpleasant note, cinnamon, again a reminder that this is a 46% scotch

Finish: a nice medium ? long finish on this one, more of that sugar element coming through from the palate, again that blueberry theme as well which has stuck with me from the beginning, more cinnamon from the palate, and a sweetness I can?t quite pin down, but that reminds me of a good cream soda (IBC to put a name on it)

Overall / final thoughts: Wow! GlenDronach, I am hooked! This was a thoroughly enjoyable dram, well done! The blueberry and sugar notes that kept coming up all the way through, I really enjoyed. For the $90/bottle here I can?t say this will be an everyday, go-to dram, but just like the big brother, it will have a place on my shelf amongst the others to stay.

Rating: 89/100



Glendronach 15 Revival - 46% ABV

Color ? Ochre & Sunset Oranges

Nose ? Plum, cherry blossom, candied fruit, wet oak, sea breeze, alpine flowers.

Taste ? Fruitcake, mulling spice, stone fruit, sandal wood, prune juice, a very light hint of licorice and horehound candy, varnish and dusty wood floors, a light meat like pate flavor.

Finish ? More spice and dark fruit, malt syrup, orange citric, bread pudding, graham cracker spread with molasses, old woolen cloth.

Palate ? Smooth, mellow, light oiliness, slow burn, deep flavors.

Thoughts

I haven?t had a malt like this for a while so I?m struggling with my descriptions a little. Too used to those smoky drams, which has made this a very nice change.
It has depth smoothness and longevity. It?s refined, Sherlock Holmes to the bumbling Lestrade. There are many light sweet notes, but interspersed with more challenging strings of flavor. The wet oak, alpine flowers and licorice were all counter flavors that seemed to go against the grain of the whole, but in the end provided the depth and the longevity that I found. The fruit notes are prevalent throughout and hold the narrative together, but most of all I liked the experience of going from airy and fruity through spiced fruits and finishing on deeper grain flavors with some residual citric and fruit-pit goodbyes.

83/100 Delicious, would drink again but not buy.



I admit that after posting my tasting late on the night it was due, it was very satisfying to see that we had come to similar conclusions and exact same scores.

W?s H?il! 



Glendronach Revival 15 Year Old 100% Sherry Matured - 46% abv

Nose: Really nice, started to pick up different things on 2nd, 3rd and 4th sniffs. Mainstay each time was cherry, or glazed cherries like my grandma used to cook with. 

Palate: Quite big at the start and tapering through the tasting. Toffee is the main flavour I am getting from it.

Finish: Long, not as oily as I like however as the flavour lingers in my mouth the cherry flavour comes out more. 

Final Word: 90/100

I bought this on a whim after chatting to a guy at my local whisky store. He mentioned it was going out of production for a few years so I picked up a bottle and it's actually taken me back a long time to when I was a child with my grandma's baking. It's an odd reaction as I haven't had this before but the toffee and the glazed cherry flavours have really taken me back to when I was young. 

I would definitely recommend this for those people who like a sherry scotch, it's quite sweet however very drinkable in terms have having 3-4 in a night. I might go back and buy a couple more bottles before they stop production to keep me going through the years of it being unavailable. 



Glendronach 15 ? Review #14

Color: Crimson laced mahogany

Nose:   Starts with fresh berries, strawberries, raspberries and blackberries.  Then come the dried fruits with notes of dates, figs and raisins. Toffee, cedar humidor, milk chocolate, orange peels, 

Palate:  Oily, thick, rich mouth feel. The 46% abv is warming but not hot. The palate meets the expectations set by the nose.  The sherry fruits, the fresh berries and dried fruits all appear prominently on the palate.  The creamy milk chocolate from the nose become bitter dark chocolate on the palate and there is a nice woody note that keeps it from being cloyingly sweet.  I also get a bit of spice that I associate with Christmas. 

Finish:  Long, sweet sherry notes slowly become woody and slightly bitter and then revert back to sweet sherry fruits.  It does not become dry as it slowly fades away.  

Impression The first time I tried Glendronach 15 was at a restaurant and it instantly became my favorite scotch.  It is an incredibly vibrant and flavorful dram that exceeds anything you could possibly expect from a sherry bomb.

91/100   



Repost from two years ago.

GlenDronach Revival. Speyside single malt, aged 15 years in Oloroso sherry casks. Bottled without chill filtration or added colour at 46% ABV. Local bottle price: $100 for 700mL.

Nose: Big sherry, reminding me of Glenfarclas but a little more refined. Sweet dried fruit; sultanas, dates, sun-dried apricots. Somewhat bourbony with a strong vanilla/cereal (malt with hints of rye and sweet corn) note.

Palate: Full bodied creamy sherry flavour, but still quite clean. Fresh granny smith apple notes with a lusciously thick maltiness.

Finish: Long finish, the apple notes dominating and attempting to tame the sherry tannins. Rich plums, stewed pear, cherries and liquorice, with hints of dry oak towards the end.

Lives up to the hype. Wonderful whisky. Easily in league - if not better than - the other classic sherried Speysiders (I dare say this has as much flavour as the cask-strength daddies in the A'bunadh and Mac CS). If this level of quality keeps up, there will always been an open bottle of GlenDronach in my house.

94/100

(I probably overrated it slightly, but it's still an easy 85-90. Back when this came out and was under $100, it was seriously good value. I've had a few other expressions, both distillery bottlings and IBs, but I think either this or the Allardice are their best.)



Date: 14-02-2015

nose It's pretty much all sherry but every now and than i get something different. Things like fudge, cheap milkchocolate, sweet notes of pineapple ,hints of glue but not bothersome and roses come up, but mostly sweet sherry.

mouth feel quite average, not super oily or watery.

Palate When i just opened the bottle i got this lovely minty choloate note, it has kinda faded after 2 months but with a little bit of water it quickly returns to the palate. Lovely mouthwatering and some spiceyness from the cask. The minty chocolate reminds me of these chocolate sticks.

finish It's pretty amazing how it develops, over a period of +/- 60 seconds the finish changes a lot. Everytime i swallow i get one of of the following tastes, bitterniss from nuts , dark chocolate ,Borstplaat almost the same astablet , liquorice and spiceyness from the oak just kinda lingers in the finish.

rating 91/100

I bought my bottle for ? 40,-, amazing value for money. The bottle lasted 2 months.



Repost:

Region: Speyside

Up first, we have the GlenDronach 15 Revival. This was released to celebrate BenRiach owning the distillery, and is Matured in Oloroso sherry casks.

Just calm down, I know you love some Oloroso, but let's not tip the waiter before the foods out just yet. We know it's a proper Abv., it's non chill filtered, and it's of natural colour (which is amazing). And yes, it's fully aged in the sherry casks.

But seriously, it's still close to the Highlands, and I'm biased as all get out against them, so let's wait and see, shall we?

Price: N/A in Ontario. I know, you're so surprised.

Abv: 46%

Colour: Burgundy

Nose: Strawberry, plum, kiwi, nutmeg, sugary, orange rind

Well, they weren't kidding about the sherry influence one bit. This has that grown-up fruit punch nose to it, with just the right amount of acidic notes.

Could be on the sweet side as time goes on though.

Taste: Strawberry jam, brown sugar, bubblegum, cinnamon, mango, cherry

However the taste isn't overly sweet... to me. I once ate 12 creme caramels in one sitting though, so I may have screwed up my tastebuds with too much sugar.

I wish there was more spice. That's a nit-pick, but an honest one at least. Otherwise it's quite tasty.

Finish: Nutmeg, strawberry, lemon curd, brine, cucumber, mushroom

Earthy is a word that I throw around sometimes, and this is earthy. Almost sourly early in some ways. Too earthy, in fact.

Conclusion: I'd say it's a tiny step up from the 12, however the finish isn't doing it any favours. The strawberry/nutmeg/lemon is helping fight the good fight, though there's quite a bit of earth there.

82/100



Oh hey, didn't even realize there was a community review when I bought a bottle of this, perfect timing.

Review #38: Community review, GlenDronach 15 Revival

GlenDronach 15 Revival

Speyside, 46% ABV, $95 US

Nose: Oranges, raspberries, more fruit, chocolate fudge, nuts, brown sugar, coffee, sherry, vanilla

Palate: Chocolate, mint, coffee, raisins, oranges, hard candy, sherry, smooth and chewy

Finish: Smooth, warm, lingering, syrup, fruit, orange, peppermint, dark chocolate, bitter

85/100. Ist gut. Love the color on this one, that deep brown natural look. Very smooth and warm, heavy on the sherry. Nose is great and actually soothing, this will be a treat when the cold starts to creep back in. Very heavy on the fruit and chocolate which suits it well. At this price I probably wouldn't buy another bottle but good dram overall.



This is my first review! I've been drinking scotch for 15 years and it's time I started sharing notes. Great Subreddit. 

I first got a bottle of this about 9 months ago. My wife and I had thoroughly enjoyed The Glendronach 12 year so I was excited to try this, fortunately it did not disappoint. 

Glendronach 15 year Revival

ABV: 46%

Price: $101 locally so I order from the whiskey exchange

Color: Amber and dark honey

Nose: Creamy, caramel, toffee dessert like rice pudding with a touch of fruit and a hint of oak. Very Pleasant and inviting.

Taste: Creme Brulee, warmth, spice cake, dried fruit, dark cherry, thick with a sliver of wood at the end.

Finish: Smooth, silky, dark fruit, a lingering sweetness throughout. Warm and pleasant with a touch of smoke at the end. 

Rating: 92/100

The Glendronach 15 is absolutely wonderful. The balance from nose to finish is nearly perfect for my palate. It's never too sharp, too sweet or too pungent. The warmth and sweet spice invites me again and again and I am only sad that my bottle is nearly empty. 



Hello Scotchit! I'm glad I can participate to a community review. This bottle has been on my wishlist for a while now
and I finally got one a few weeks ago. Onto the review!

GlenDronach 15 Revival, Speyside, 46% ABV, non-chill filtered, natural color, $100.25CAD / 750ml @ SAQ

Color: Dark brown / copper

Nose: The sweet smell of toffee and dried berries

Taste: Sweet with caramel/toffee, raisins and other dried fruits. Very cake-like. I also has that Oloroso 
spiciness you wouldn't get with a PX cask. 

Finish: Mostly raisins, spices and oak. Dark chocolate maybe?

Overall: I've only had a few drams of this one but I already like it quite a bit. The balance is wonderful in
my opinion, with a nice integration of flavors from the casks. It's definitely sweet but not too much, and has a 
bit of everything. I think it's a nice step up from the 12 which maybe suffers from tired casks? Not sure but there's
something musty about the 12 that the 15 doesn't have. 

Score: 88



Hello Scotchit! 

Drawn from the database, new notes at the end.

Finally had a change to do a quick review of one of the most talked about sherry monsters on the sub. Second to only the A?bunadh I?d imagine.

Colour: Coffee brown (too dark for copper)

Nose: Superbly rich sherry nose. Extremely prominent milk chocolate is accompanied by raisins, Valencia orange, sweet honey, marmalade and caramel.

Palate: Chocolate ?clairs, dates, vanilla cream, salted caramel and black cherries. How long am I allowed to hold this before I start to loose my teeth?

Finish: Long, if not light finish. Malty Bourbon biscuits, bitter chocolate, banana bread, demerara sugar and subtle fruit.

Seriously impressive stuff from a distillery I've never really been drawn to. I think this is my favourite 15yo behind the Balvenie 15 Single Barrel, although that may soon change with the release of the 15 Single Barrel Sherry Cask. This is a great whisky to give someone looking for an introduction to sherried whiskys. Delightful. 88/100

Revisited this tonight, I'm glad to say I still agree with my tasting notes although they could do with expanding.

My opinion of the distillery has changed dramatically however. GlenDronach has gone from "A distillery I've never really been drawn to", to being one of my absolute favourite distilleries. I'm very glad to have visited this just by gone summer. It goes without saying that GlenDronach has some of the best regular release and single cask release whiskies seen to date. I'm sad to see the Revival go, but I look forward to it's return. Hard to beat when the price and provenance is taken into consideration, still 88/100.



Glendronach 15 Revival  46% 

Color:  Amber +2, Clings to the glass with slow small tears giving way to medium legs.

Nose:  Barley richness, Sherry, Orange Peel, Brown Sugar, Cinnamon, Oak, Anise, Hazelnuts, Tannins, Caramel, Ethyl.  

Mouth Feel:  Medium Oiliness, Peppery Spices.

Taste:  Black Pepper, Syrup, Oak, Red Wine, Raisins, Orange Pith, Caramel, Charred Oak, Blackberries, Fruitcake, Strawberry.

Finish:  Cinnamon, Spice, Orange, Cherry Candy, Mineral Zinc, Floral Heather, Mint, Alum Spice, Dry Red Wine.

With Water:  Nose:  Sherry is more continually released, Brown Sugar, Nutmeg, Cocoa, Caramel, Butter.
Taste:  Sweeter Caramel, Sherry, Raisins come back, Mincemeat Pie Spices, Orange Candy.

Score:  Nose:  22,  Taste:  22,  Finish:  22,  Balance:  22,   Total: 88



OLD REVIEW #109: GlenDronach 15 year - Revival - 46% abv

Nose:  Syrupy molasses, thick, dark, sweet, dark chocolate, custard, cooked apples way in the back, cinnamon, clove, nutmeg, musty cellar, herbal / vegetal note, a heavy nose.  Thick, dark, dense and heavy.  Fantastic.  With water, the menthol cooling note increases, smoky burnt popcorn, almost makes me think of pungent peat smoke.  With even more time with a cover on the glass: orange zest.  

Taste: Buttery, creamy, leather, tinge of salt, burnt toffee, viscous, vanilla, white pepper, raisins.  With water the burnt/smoky effect increases, becomes silky on the tongue, nice and oily and heavy. Cola.

Finish: Scones, nutmeg, oak, burnt toffee, oolong tea.  That vegetal note again.  Finish is actually stronger with a few drops of water, or maybe it?s just accumulating with each sip. With time, chocolate covered cherry, chocolate candied orange wedge. 

Score: 91/100 (increased 2 points)

Buy a full bottle? Holy hell yes.

Closing Thoughts: I tried this almost a year ago in one of my first group of samples, so I was glad to give it a retry now that I feel like I have a more discerning palate.  This is some damn fine whisky.



Sample from /u/adramgooddrink. I've been dying to try this whisky, but it's just is just priced slightly too high for me unless it's a special occasion. Thankfully I was able to get a sample of it, especially seeing as though it's a community review. 

Nose Plums, juicy raisins, dark red berries, dark chocolate, cut grass, honey, touch of oaky vanilla. 

Lovely influence from the sherry cask, dessert like without being overly sweet. 9/10

Taste raisinets, coffee, slightly sour, white grape juice. Pretty bitter.

I'm not getting a terrible amount of stuff here, and what's there is trending sour and bitter. 39/50

Body A medium body that leaves the perfect amount of oil behind. 10/10 

Finish Initially bitter, but lingers and fades to a mixed berry-yogurty note. Not bad. 17/20

Value I wish I thought this was worth the price tag, but I can't see it. It's not a bad dram, just no where near being an amazing $90 bottle either. 6/10

Overall I'm disappointed to say the least. I remember liking Glendronach 12 and you people won't shut up about how great the 15 year revival is. It's okay, pretty good if it were $60 but at $90 that can get me stocked up with a good scotch, bourbon, and rye. I'm going to be passing this one by when I see it, y'all can take however much you can carry! Total: 81/100

Scotch Review 45

Network Review 147



Glendronach Revival 15yr ? 46%

The Revival is a more palatable pour, but it?s a bit too simple to really get me interested. It does nothing wrong, and is a great example of a sherried scotch, but there?s not much more to it. So, to conclude, it gets a ?good? grade in conjunction with an ?overpriced? tag.



Better late than never, just back from vacation!

Glendronach Revival

Review #9

?

Nose- Raisins, sherry, strong cocoa, cherries, raspberries, wood, floral, cinnamon, cereal grains, light orange oil, creme br?l?e. 

?

Taste-  Starts off with pure sherry, flowing quickly into a fruity cocktail of creamy strawberries, raspberry, plum,  apricots. Then the spices roll in with a bit of dry oak and some soft, smooth anise like a good absinthe. Theres some more creme br?l?e jumbled in there with the spices, and a nice lick of charcoal. 

?

Finish- Soft raisins, plums, caramel, bitter cocoa, dry oak and some ginger heat. Latex gloves after a while. Med to long. 

?

This is about as close as you can get to cognac while drinking scotch I figure. Really tasty stuff and I'll likely buy more at some point, but A'bunadh is $15 cheaper here, so I'd probably go that route or try something new to me first. 

91/100



Glendronach may be making the best sherried whisky available today. Unfortunately, this one is being put on hold for a few years to allow stocks to catch back up. Also, this one is likely older than the 15 year age statement indicates. Despite the reputation for sherried whisky, from 2005-8 Pernod used only bourbon casks at Glendronach per malt madness, so we may be seeing more unsherried/finished bourbon whiskies for a bit from Glendronach.

15 years old. 46% abv. NCF/Natural Color.

Nose - Chocolate covered oranges, clove, allspice, plenty of cinnamon, gingerbread, toffee, with an earthy oakiness and maybe some pipe tobacco, white pepper, hints of a struck match (sulphur? It doesn?t ruin it for me by any stretch). A lot of richness, depth, and complexity - I really like this.

Taste - Bitter dark chocolate, orange liqueur, an earthy oakiness, tobacco, cinnamon, clove, and gingerbread. Exceptionally well balanced fruit/earthy/spicy notes. Medium plus body that grips the palate fairly well.

Finish - The bitter dark chocolate + orange liqueur theme continues with cinnamon, gingerbread, tobacco, and black pepper. Lingers a bit, but not that big.

I love me some sherried Glendronach, and this is a big reason why. The 100% Oloroso maturation has lent a lot of richness and depth to this one, and as far as I?m concerned it?s the standard bearer for sherried Scotch, and at roughly 40% the cost of Mac 18 to boot (this is better than the Mac 18 in my book). It shows a lot of age and complexity, along with the depth, balance, and richness I already mentioned liking so much - I just hope it maintains this standard when it?s re-released again in a few years. 

92/100



From 2 years ago (I can't believe it's been that long!)

GlenDronach 15 Revival 

Too expensive to be a daily drinker (at least for me), but this is one heck of a whisky. A dessert sherry bomb that is not ashamed of who it is.



ABV: 46%
Price: ?43
Poured: Neat into a Glencairn

Nose: very nice! strawberry, raspberry, lemon citrus, floral, powdered cocoa
Mouthfeel: A little thin
Palate: Soft, saccharine, marshmallow. Very tart, under-ripe raspberry. Chalky. Fairly long nice finish with warm malt, bitter chocolate, herbal, minty, raisin, dried plum

Rating: 83/100

Nice pour, nice nose. Not crazy about the palate, especially the extreme saccharine and tart qualities at the front. There are other affordable sherry bombs I'd buy over this one but it's certainly enjoyable and distinctive!



Appearance: Amber +2

Nose: Lots of burnt sugar and caramel (reminds me of Glenfarclas), mocha, some leather, a rum note.

Taste: Rich and viscous, smooth and complex, dark fruits, raisin, chocolate, cherries, plumb, very well integrated.

Finish: Mellow richness that hangs around, with lingering dark fruits.

Score: 92/100

I am a big Glendronach fanboy, so I had high expectations for this one. I was not disappointed. The profile is obviously Sherry heavy, but is very well integrated and complex. The thing I was struck by is just how mellow this one is, even at 46%. A superb dram.



Scotchit Review #4 [Whisky/Whiskey Review #11]  

My Own Image

Glendronach 15 Revival ? Matured in Spanish Oloroso Sherry Casks - 92 proof ? Non-chill filtered ? Natural Coloring  

Three solid pours over a four day period, neat in a glencairn glass.  Sat in the glass for 20+ minutes, each time.  

Color:  Hey, look!  It?s sherry matured scotch!  

Nose: I admit I do like these sherry matured scotches.  Like in the Aberlour A?bunadh (only not as intense), I got those thick (is thick a smell?) fudgy, toffee, orangey/raspberry/cherry (those fruity aromas are jumbled together, for me) notes right up front.  More in the background I got some sweet tobacco and black tea.  There?s a little bit of wood, and it seems just enough to be complementary.  It?s a pleasant nose that doesn?t burn, even when nosing it deeply.  Pretty good, but it does suffer in comparison to the A?bunadh #47, which was much richer, deeper and more complex.  But this isn?t cask strength, so that makes sense.  

Palate:  Medium thickness for the mouthfeel.  I actually felt like the mouthfeel was thicker and chewier after the bottle had been open for a number of days.  Also, I think the very first pour immediately after it was opened had an off-putting astringent quality to the palate that I didn?t care for.  The subsequent pours have had ZERO astringent qualities to them.  Lightly sherry sweet, at first, then fruity, but a nice dryer, more complex, spicier palate pushes through after that.  It follows the nose with a beginning of fruit and sherry and then moves to some wood, black tea and even some clove.  The longer I let it sit on my tongue, the thicker it got.  And the taste just kept going.  It didn?t fade on the palate.  

Finish: There?s just a bit of heat on the tongue, which is very pleasant.  I swear I can taste a bit of candy cane in the finish, along with the dryer flavors I described in the palate, but there?s always a hint of some kind of fruit throughout the entire process.   I?m not disappointed in the finish, at all.  It seems to last several minutes for the sips I let sit on my tongue for a while.  

Rating: 89 out of 100.  It?s a high B+ for me.  I like it quite a bit, and it?s right on the verge of me liking it a ton, but I think it suffers in comparison to the Aberlour A?bunadh #47 that I?ve had in the past, which doesn?t make me want to rush out and keep this in stock.   It?s very good, but doesn?t have that ?wowzer!? factor that I?m looking for in a whisky at this price point.  The Glendronach 15 Revival is very civilized and I think would be great to uncork at a party full of close friends and/or those who are not into peated whisky.  But if you want to knock their socks off, get a solid batch of A?bunadh and watch everyone rave.  

Value:  My local store sells this for $95.99, which is a few bucks on the high side, but then they also send out all kinds of coupons, so I got this for less than $90.  For that price, I?m not super anxious to buy this again.  I would never turn down a pour of this and will certainly enjoy the pair of bottles I have, but I am tempted to swap a full bottle of this for another very good whisky.  

(What my ratings mean ? Anything below 75 =  something you cook with, drown in cola, or give away.  Your choice.  Just don?t drink it by itself.  You?ve been warned.  75-79 = a very average whiskey.  I get what they?re trying to do, but it?s not what I?m trying to enjoy.  I might even choose a soft drink or a glass of wine over this at a function or a friend?s house and I wouldn?t ever buy another bottle even if it was offered in a 2-1 sale.  80-85 = B- to B type of grade.  It?s not bad, and it?s even pretty decent, but it?s not in my wheelhouse of what I?m looking for.  It?s got one or two (or more) things that keep me from getting excited about it.  I wouldn?t turn it down at a function or a friend?s house, and I?d mostly enjoy it, but there?s a very good chance I won?t ever buy another bottle.  86-89 = B to B+ type of grade.  I like this quite a bit and enjoy it.  I might even buy another bottle, but it?s not knocking my socks off or making me want to sing its praise.  90-95 = A- to A type of grade.  This is really good stuff!  Really good, let me tell you.  I like it a lot and will be on the lookout for another bottle, if I haven?t already purchased another one.  96-100 = A to A+ type of grade.  Gadzooks, Batman!!!  Where is my credit card, what is my limit, and can I borrow the Batmobile right now???)



From my earlier notes

Glendronach 15 Revival

Nose: After clearing some initial vapors (sneakers, hay-like walnut oil, varnish): Rich melted chocolate, coconut oil, and some walnut. The next slow breath added raisin and vanilla. Finally, the milk chocolate, raisin, vanilla, walnut all seem to blend together in some woody caramel. There is only one small deviation from this fudgy delight? celery? Yes, celery root, light enough to not detract from the rest of the aromas.

Palate: Enters with sweet honey-caramel, slightly tangy raisin, and then tannic nutmeg & cocoa. Held in the mouth, the tannins pass to walnut with supporting woody oak spice/hazelnut on the tongue. Then a raisiny impression comes from back, seeming thick and still with vanilla-walnut.

Finish: Sensation of cocoa raisin sustains, together with vanilla in the throat, and the tongue has some drying from tannic walnut.

Before it was announced to be discontinued, this was the best value-for-the-money out there, sometimes 40-45Eur.

93/100



Matured exclusively in sherry casks? Craft presentation? Affordable? How could I not get a bottle?

So, it's non chill filtered, natural colour and 46% ABV. And it comes in a nice Laphroaig-green tube. Looking at this whisky makes me want to drink it. Also my bottle is from 2015, so as the rumours go it might be around 20 years old. Sherrific!

The nose is astounding. It's incredibly intense, rich and complex. The palate and finish aren't bad at all, but not as good as the nose either. At the tail-end of the finish I get a yeasty/sulphury note which is not exactly pleasant, but neither off-putting.

Rating: 86/100



Alright, alright, alright. Review #1 and I'm late. I'm posting this as guilty penance to fellow Wisconsinite /u/texacer who wanted more community participation from /r/scotch lurker garbage like me. Quick intro, I drink Puer tea all day and whisky at night. I've drank my way through a full bottle of the 15 revival. My tea drinking often trails off into scotch in the evening. It looks somethin like this

Nose: Sherry heavy, stewed prunes, overripe fruit, spice, chocolate

Palate: Sweetness, sherry, red and purple fruits, creamy mouthfeel 

Finish: Long pleasant finish, dark chocolate, spice, orange peel, oak, lingering bitter note

Rating: 90/100

I'm late to the party and its all been said, but this is a solid sherry heavy dram for a reasonable price. Not the cheapest dram out there, but the value is still there. I'd recommend it to any fans of sherry or anybody interested in getting acquainted with their inner sherry lover. I will do a vertical comparison to the 12, 18, and 21 sometime soon as I really ought to give back to this great community. 

Verdict: Buy a bottle



I'm sorry I missed the party on this one but I really wanted to participate. Damn work and life for getting in the way of my online-imaginary whisky tasting party!!! 

Let's be late to the party and try to blend the fuck in and hope someone is lounging by the bar still.

This makes review number 89.

Conditions: Neat, INAO

Colour: Amber +1, or slightly suspicious of added color

Nose: Some fresh fruit and raisins. Soft leather. As it opens I get some rich expensive cocktail cherries. The black ones. Fake peach hair smell.

Weight/Body: Legs break slow, coat the glass

Palate: Sweet dense bread with a light butter and thin spread of jam. They work so well together they are hard to pull apart. Going to land on strawberry and plums for me. Faint touch of celery salt and a tart fruit note on as the palate turns to the finish.

Finish: Leather comes back. Oddly, some burnt matches. Perhaps that sulphur that people talk about? Some black pepper.

Conclusion: This seems really nicely done. Nothing crazy but I struggled to find a reason to Not like it. A few odd notes in it. I don?t love it and the sherry is there but not in an over the top way. Very likeable. This is a community review choice I can get behind despite the cost. If it was on sale I?d buy it but I won?t keep it in the cabinet. Thanks for introducing this one to me. 

Score: 84/100



Glendronach 15 Revival

A week ago i decided to order this because of all the praise surrounding it, and the fact that it will be disappearing very quickly. I personally am planning to keep my bottle sealed for a more special moment, but luckily a friend of mine ordered it as well (because he heard my enthusiasm about it), and he decided to pop his bottle open with me. This felt like a great opportunity for my very first review on scotchit.

On to the tasting notes:

Nose: Immediately a very complex, rich and dark fruity aroma. Was literally blown away with it (just 6 months since my first single malt). After nosing some more, i noticed a smell that seems to be the 'sulfur-y' note I've heard about. It was slightly unpleasant, but definitely faded after some time in the glass, as it opened up more. I did not want to stop smelling this whisky. The complexity was inviting, and i was interested in this new sulfur aroma that was so abruptly presented to me.

Palate: Definitely a well sherried taste. lots of chocolate, raspberries and oak. Don't remember the mouth-feel that well but it felt really rich and full. Drinking this was enough to occupy my attention completely. Just the glass and myself was all i needed, should I've been alone.

Finish: The finish did not disappoint me. You get more warm sherried chocolate, dried fruit, a little pepper and a little dryness in general. I don't remember it being a very long finish, but certainly satisfying!

Conclusion:
I am very happy to have bought this one. It is absolutely the best whisky i have personally tasted up until now, and i will try to make my bottle last quite a bit. The two friends accompanying me during the tasting were also very exited. It's a sherry bomb, and a really well executed one! The age has made it very smooth and inviting, and the complexity makes me want to keep nosing this forever.

Rating: 89/100

I will not rate this extremely high, because my experience with scotch is still relatively limited. Most of my bottles were on sale for around 30 - 40 euro's, so i don't have huge frame of reference yet. But i hope to learn a lot more in the coming years!



I will not rate this extremely high, because my experience with scotch is still relatively limited. Most of my bottles were on sale for around 30 - 40 euro's, so i don't have huge frame of reference yet. But i hope to learn a lot more in the coming years!

Go ahead and rate them how you'd score them regardless of experience - I've started coming back to some things I haven't had since I started getting in to whisk(e)y almost 3 years ago, and my scores are rarely if ever all that different. A lack of experience should never keep you from trusting your own judgment, even if your palate may change some over time.



Glendronach 15 Revival - 46%, ~$80

Nose: Delightfully forward nose of plums, figs, mahogany, and raisins. It fades for a bit after sitting, but then is replaced by heavier woody notes, some honeysuckle, and blackberries.

Palate: Entrance is pretty lively and light. Mouthfeel is a bit lighter than I expected, but satisfying if you leave it sit for a bit.

The palate is a bit more bitter than your standard go-to sherry bombs, like dark chocolate with slightly tart raspberries. I found it intriguing and refreshing, but I know some are put off by it. It has some some spice towards the unfortunately short finish, but not as much as the Dalmore 15. There seems to be a bit of smoke, but that might just be the combination of spice and burn. 

At first, the body is also kind of disappointing, although I was perhaps biased by others saying this was a valid substitute for the Macallan 18. The Glendronach does have quite a bit more additional complexity, but you?ll have to let it sit for that complexity to come out. When you do, the sheer depth of wine flavor makes it easy to forget that the body isn?t that thick. There are so many dark fruit and grape flavors that it feels almost like drinking a very high-proof wine.

This started to grow on me as sipped it, and like many 18+ 43%+ whiskies, this needs some time to sit to keep the burn from being distracting. While the finish is short, the rich palate makes up for it.

Rating: 89 (probably won't buy another bottle, but will cherish it while I have it)



Greetings, Scotchit!  Long time lurker, first time reviewer.  A community review seems like a nice place to start reviewing as it's a bit less intimidating then starting a brand new post.  Anyway, here goes!

Glendronach 15 Revival

ABV: 46%

Price: $65

Nose:  Plums (soft purple ones), sweet syrup,  hint of caramel, a bit of a sharp/sour kick in the nostrils when I get close enough.  A bit of spice but much less than I expected in a supposed sherry bomb like this.  There is a nice depth to the nose and although I'm still very much an amateur in whisky, I can appreciate that there is some depth in this nose.

Palate:  Sweet.  Fruit - sweet berries and plums - which then make way to a bit of spice with a nice kick spreading to the back of the tongue.  There is a great spread of flavour all around the tongue in this dram which makes for a very interesting mouthfeel.  Very silky and I just love the way it travels to the edge of the tongue.  After that I get a bit of dark chocolate, coffee and some bitterness moving into the finish.  All in all, a nice transition from sweet to sour to bitter.

Finish: Probably my least favourite aspect of this dram.  I felt it was a bit short, lasting only around 10-15 seconds for me.  It's rather  bitter (see: straight, dense black tea, coffee), but then dissapears to nothing.  I felt the finish fades much too quickly for my liking.

Rating:  85/100

Buy again?:  For sure, given the price and the upcoming drought!  

Thoughts:  A thoroughly enjoyable sherry-influenced dram which is an exceptionally good value given its age and quality.  I felt a bit let down in the finish - fades away much too quickly for me - but the nose and taste are complex and layered.  Surprisingly, it was less sweet than I expected, which is a pleasant surprise for me.

Thanks for reading and hope to do more reviews soon!  

Mods:  If I'm eligible for a tartan for this review could I please have "Malt Whitman"?  Cheers!



So awhile ago, I picked up three samples of GlenDronach whisky.

And then I swapped a lot, cut back to two samples a week, did some other things, went on vacation, etc and promptly forgot about them, other than cracking the 12 for the community review (see link below.

So now that I've cut back on swapping, and it's a new year, it's time to finally get to the remaining GlenDronachs in this quad review.

Special thanks to /u/ziggy1283 for the 21 Parliament sample and to /u/Jolarbear for the sample of the 15 Tawny Port.

So, GlenDronach. What's up with them? Are they be going like others while other places be going a different way? No, and that sentence was as hard to write as it is to read.

Located in Aberdeenshire, and owned by the BenRiach distillery company. Which the giant fucking D should have given away as soon as we saw it.

Founded in 1826, and ran until 1996 when it was mothballed... for a short time, then being opened again in 2001. It's passed hands quite a bit, being owned by Walter Scott, Charles Grant, and Teachers and Sons.

The name comes from where they draw their water, the Dronac burn, which is on distillery grounds.

So, how does it taste?

Region: Speyside

Up first, we have the GlenDronach 15 Revival. This was released to celebrate BenRiach owning the distillery, and is Matured in Oloroso sherry casks.

Just calm down, I know you love some Oloroso, but let's not tip the waiter before the foods out just yet. We know it's a proper Abv., it's non chill filtered, and it's of natural colour (which is amazing). And yes, it's fully aged in the sherry casks.

But seriously, it's still close to the Highlands, and I'm biased as all get out against them, so let's wait and see, shall we?

Price: N/A in Ontario. I know, you're so surprised.

Abv: 46%

Colour: Burgundy

Nose: Strawberry, plum, kiwi, nutmeg, sugary, orange rind

Well, they weren't kidding about the sherry influence one bit. This has that grown-up fruit punch nose to it, with just the right amount of acidic notes.

Could be on the sweet side as time goes on though.

Taste: Strawberry jam, brown sugar, bubblegum, cinnamon, mango, cherry

However the taste isn't overly sweet... to me. I once ate 12 creme caramels in one sitting though, so I may have screwed up my tastebuds with too much sugar.

I wish there was more spice. That's a nit-pick, but an honest one at least. Otherwise it's quite tasty.

Finish: Nutmeg, strawberry, lemon curd, brine, cucumber, mushroom

Earthy is a word that I throw around sometimes, and this is earthy. Almost sourly early in some ways. Too earthy, in fact.

Conclusion: I'd say it's a tiny step up from the 12, however the finish isn't doing it any favours. The strawberry/nutmeg/lemon is helping fight the good fight, though there's quite a bit of earth there.

82/100

GlenDronach 15 Tawny Port Cask Finish. Woah. Calm down. Let's just all calm down, get off the Port Finish Hype Train, take a chill pill (I prefer Celebrex), take a deep breath, maybe meditate, have a wank/twip, and just calm down.

Okay. We all good now? Great.

This is initially matured in European Oak and then finish in a small batch of Tawny Port casks. This one was launched in 2011, and it's since been replaced (I think) by an 18 year version.

And who here hasn't replaced a 15 year old with an 18 before? We were all young once. And that's honestly the better way to go, because you stay out of prison more often.

And with that, I've cemented myself on a list somewhere.

Price: $99.60 (CAD) at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: Brown/Light Purple

Nose: Nectarine, lemon, watermelon, cranberry, cherry, anise

Tons of nectarine goodness, really juicy nose. Smells like it would be juicy. If you don't understand, re-read my comment about 18 and 15 year olds.

Taste: Melon, smoke, anise, plum, lots of strawberry, green grapes

The Green melon, specifically. We're no longer talking about 18 year olds, get your mind out of the gutter.

Tons of strawberry notes as well, and a nice amount of anise for me. I love Anise flavoured booze, so this is happy town for me.

Finish: Anise, pepper, woody, taro, chipotle, salami, red grapes

Good amount of spice and smoke. A nice amount of earth in here too, with some acid. I'm enjoying this more than the finish on the Revival.

Conclusion: If the 15 Revival had the finish on this one, I'd have scored it a lot higher. However the taste on this one is mostly strawberry, yet the finish has a better balance. The noses tie. It squeaks by the Revival for being that little bit better. Good dram all around.

83/100

