Glenfiddich 12 year - 40%, $29 

Nose: Light sherried cereal, malt, fruity, pear.

Taste: Malty, sweet pear, oaky spice. Light mouthfeel.

Finish: Malt fades first, the pear lingers for a moment. Short-medium length.

Notes: Not overly complex, pleasant but just overall weak. 

78/100



ABV: 40%

Price: $26

Distiller: Glenfiddich

"Carefully matured in the finest American bourbon and Spanish sherry oak casks for at least 12 years. Married and mellowed in oak marrying tuns for complete harmony of aroma and flavour."

Eye: 
Golden caramel

Nose:
The sherry is very prominent and is the first aroma to make it's way out of the glass. Meandering out on their own time schedule are some notes of caramel, malt, strawberries, red licorice, sugar, light orchard fruit and a bit of vanilla.

Taste:
The flavor does a 180 with the pears and fresh red apples coming up first. Malt leads the second wave with sherry, honey, dessert spice and just a bit of oak and burnt sugar.

Feel:
Smooth to the point it borders on boring but manges to not cross the line.

Finish:
Pears and honey slowly fades to soft malt and oak one a long and pleasant finish.

Score:
85/100

Overall:
I like the Glenfiddich 12 and if you haven't had it you should. The nose is a bit soft and mushy with the notes somewhat running together making it not very exciting, but it's not quite boring either. It's easy and accessible with sweet malty flavors moving about the glass in a delicate balance. If it were any sweeter it would topple over and become cloying, but there is just enough malt to keep everything in line and make it a pleasant drinking experience with a fantastic finish.



I was surprised to find that there was a free Glenfiddich Tasting at my local bar where my scotch meet up group gathers when I came to our monthly event last week. It was the standard 12, 15, and 18, all of which I've had before but only one of which I've reviewed, so I was a nice opportunity to compare the three and take some notes. 

Edit: apparently the rep had some of his facts wrong. The information in question will be marked with strikethrough.

Glenfiddich 12

Strength: 40%

Color: Gold.

Nose: Pears, with a little apple. Fresh and fruity. 

Palate: Light and sweet, honey malt and more pear. It does have some bite to it for a 40% whisky. 

Finish: Floral and citrusy, with oak setting in. Decently long and warm. 

Summary: Great intro scotch, still enjoy it after trying so many single malts. 

Score: 86/100 



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Glenfiddich reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Yep. They described them as follows:

12: ~85%/15% Ex-bourbon/oloroso matured scotch.




I initially wasn't going to participate, but some time opened up, so I found a bar and got a dram. 

Review #16

Glenfiddich 12, 40%

Nose: green apples, sherry fruit, alcohol bite, grapefruit

Mostly sour fruits, apples and citrus. Not too complex.

Taste: grain, apples, sultanas, sweet and malty

Inoffensive sweetness and general sherry influence. 

Finish: sharp, medium length, bitter apples, burnt oak, lasting bitterness

Honestly, I don't want to swallow this. It's pleasant enough in the mouth, but the finish is bitter and gross. I'm not a fan of bitter whiskies at all, but that's me.

Conclusion: Not for me. Basic, a notch above standard blends, but not much. Cloyingly sweet and a lasting bitterness that you can't wash out. Finish loses major points for me. Not paying for this again.

Score: 68/100

No thanks. Never again.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  Somehow, I've let this one get through the cracks.  I bought the gift set a while back with the Glencairn and the notepad.  The notepad lasted about a week before I filled it up with notes on whisky tastings.  So here is Glenfiddich 12 year old 80 proof

a standard that shouldn't be ignored or passed.  I got it for $30 and it's a fine whisky.  crisp and refreshingly sweet, simple malt.   good quality for a typical beginners Scotch.  I prefer it over Glenlivet personally.  the 15 Solera and 18 are also darn good for an affordable price.  cheers.

81/100



Glenfiddich 12

Speyside, 40%

color: light amber

nose: fresh, sweet fruit nose: pears, green apples, grapefruit, kiwi, also floral, chlorine

taste: cake, pears, bitter, conifers, alcohol

finish: quickly fading

Sweet in the nose, a bit bitter in the mouth. Ideal appetizer.

86/100



Glenfiddich is the second biggest selling single malt in the world, behind Glenlivet.

40% abv, 12 years old.

Nose - Canned pears, apple, clove, honey, vanilla, with some faint pepper and baking spice (cinnamon, ginger) notes in the background.

Palate - Mild, fruity and sweet. Largely echoes the nose -  canned pears, apples, honey, and vanilla, with clove, pepper, and a bit of baking spice as it develops. Unfortunately, I?m getting a bit of a rubbing alcohol note here as well. Medium-light body.

Finish - The honey/apple/pear/mild baking spice the
me continues, albeit with the rubbing alcohol, unfortunately. A bit more spice than I remember, though, which is nice.

Almost like drinking a proofed up oaked Chardonnay, albeit a bit sweeter. It?s pleasant enough outside of that mild rubbing alcohol note, which detracts a bit, although I can still enjoy a dram of this. Nothing thought provoking, as nothing that?s made to appeal to the masses the way this stuff is ever will be, but it has it?s place in airport bars and weddings everywhere.

81/100



sitting in an airport lounge, watching House of Cards, flight in a half hour. The bar opened? why not do a review?!

Appearance:  dark apple juice? urine-esque. Thick legs that last a long time. 

Nose: pears, mango, honey, floral notes, vanilla oak, 

Taste: fruit? pears and apple. Very light. Alcohol taste is strong for the ABV, honey, some oak.  Overall very sweet without any bitterness

Finish: finish is less sweet with some grassy notes, bit of fruit. More bitter than the palate.

Rating: 79/100

pretty boring actually. I guess that's why it's so widely consumed? no opportunity to offend anyone. But I'm not going to complain about a free dram!



I always have a bottle of that stuff on hand, it's amazing for the price up here. 

The taxes vary from province to province I believe. It is less about the import taxes and more about the 'sin' tax I think. Smokes and booze are taxes heavily to offset the cost of all the free healthcare that gets provided as a result of abusing these vices. 



Jesus I'd hate to see your skiing and cake taxes!

;)



at that price, yeah it's worth it. 

it won't offend you as a bourbon drinker. it's sweeter than many scotches, so it won't seem out of the ordinary. 

i'd say give it a shot. if you like it, enjoy. if not, you have a 'fancy' bottle on your shelf when having company over. 



you can do it!

i can't make suggestions on comparable pricing since i have no frame of reference on those prices. try it, if you like it, make a post asking about similar scotches and you'll have no shortage of input from the community



anCnoc 12! Gogogo! Search the whisky review database if you have any doubts.

Bourbon to scotch is always a weird jump, but dont lose heart. If you liked bowmore legend (which is insane! Very few people can stomach it) check out the Islay Scotches. Ardbeg 10, Laphroaig 10, and Kilchoman Machir Bay are good places to start. Next level up would be Ardbeg Uigeadail & Corryvreckran, Laphroaig QC, Port Charlotte 10, etc.



Thats the usual price for this bottle. This is probably the best starter Scotch imo because it is so inoffensive. At the price, its also not a big risk either. Buy it! If you dont like it, you can always serve it to guests and save your bourbon :p

There are some great (relatively) cheap Scotches, but Bourbon is still far cheaper on average. Scotch prices really make less sense.



Thanks for the vertical, always great to see these.

Just had the 15 Distillers Edition this past weekend, and wasn't as crazy about it - found it too oaky bitter on the finish.  Prefer the 18 and 21 Gran Reserva, personally.



best of the range

I quite like the 15 DE, but I reserve that title for the 14yo Rich oak. Tried it?



I can't say I've had the DE, but the only one I found that I actually liked enough to buy a full bottle of is their 14 Bourbon Barrel Reserve. The more substantial caramel and vanilla notes help mute that apple/pear barrage that I find off-putting and the actual wood comes through nicely with some decent spice. Throw in that it's bottled at 43% and you get something that's actually pretty good.

All of which is odd because I'm not generally a fan of ex-bourbon maturation.



Hey everyone,

Glenlivet yesterday, Glenfiddich today. Again, one of the most recognised brands and one that is often cited as a good beginner malt. I normally find it has a similar profile to Glenlivet but with more fruit and less floral notes. 

Interstingly, despite being huge and making a metric shit-tonne (technical term) of whisky, they still have small direct fired stills, which should give it a more traditional character. Although, I think the only time it can show itself off is at higher strength. 

As with Glenlivet, I?m not a huge fan of Glenfiddich, even the older stuff. Never really bottled above 40%, I feel like the character of the spirit is normally too muted. Anyways, here?s my reviews:

?

Glenfiddich 12 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Vanilla, boiled sweets, light and floral, sweet fruit- Apple, pear, peach, bit of toffee.

Taste: Sweet, fruity, lots of vanilla, toffee, oaky, malt, bit of spice, slightly oily.

Finish: Short length. Honey disappears with a bit of oak.

More fruity, less floral than Glenlivet 12, but just as boring.

55/100

?

Hi Scotch it! TOmodera here with another review. I've been drinking a lot of independent and rare bottles of Scotch, and while that's pretty awesome, it's time to get back to some of the unsung, great everyday Scotches that we all enjoy. 

To start off this habit (which I don't know how long it will last, let's guess... four reviews? Sounds good to me, fictional individual I made up to have a conversation with myself in the middle of a sentence), we'll be going for my go-to Scotch when I'm at a non-Scotch bar, Glenfiddich 12. As I was at a spa/Thai restaurant with my wife and she offered me a drink, I went for this great go to.

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Price: $49.95 (CAD) for a 750 ml

Colour: Sunshine

Nose: Mandarins, pear, little oak, apples, clover

Very light nose on this, and as I'm used to bolder Scotches, it's a little rough to pick some things out. Very fruity, the oak stays int he background. Almost like if you were downwind from an fruit market, but really, really far away.

Taste: Oak, burnt sugar, apples, sour grapes, lime tart, pepper

This is so bitter. Like, really damn bitter. Like, this video bitter. Drinking it by itself, the bitterness can be a little overwhelming. Did I mention it's bitter?

Finish: Lemon, lime rind, yeast, pop rocks, hunger, agave syrup, red grapes, oak

Medium in length, which is surprising since this is so young. The bitterness calms down a little bit, more of the oak comes in. It actually makes me want food, which is nice. Kinda like a Manhattan, it makes you want to eat more of the meal.

Conclusion: This is a nice appertif dram to have. It makes you hungry, the bitterness pairs well with food. That being said, I'd almost say that you could replace Limoncello or Cointreau with it, as it's sour and has citrus elements. I think it's a great beginner Scotch, as it won't have the overly powerful woody or peaty flavours.

74/100



Thanks for the review.

Quick question; Did you find this at all bitter?



Well, to be fair, that's $50 a pop if you're in Ontario (which you may be).

I'd recommend trying to find the taster pack. I believe it's $62.50, and even though it's been discontinued at the LCBO, there's still a bunch leftover, and gives you a chance to try the three of them.



Down in Boston, actually. It seems like prices are generally a little higher up in Canada. I was surprised to see the Glenfiddich 12 at $50 CAD- the Canadian and American dollars are very close to equal. The highest I usually see it for is $45 down here. 

I found the taster pack on the LCBO site but, as you said, it is discontinued and I doubt I would be able to find it down here. That won't stop me from looking, of course!
