Over time I?ve managed to pick up cheap bottles of glenlivet when they?ve been on sale at local supermarkets. It would be nice to go up further through the range but unfortunately I?m limited financially. I wrote each of these reviews individually, without looking at the others. Then recently finished them all off with a small vertical tasting. 

Glenlivet 15 French Oak Reserve  - 40%

I got this for ?30 a while back. I prefere the initial taste to the 12, there?s more going on, but dislike the finish which is a bit short and harsh for me.



Distiller: Glenlivet

Age: 15 years

ABV: 40%

Price: $60

Eye: 
Orangish caramel

Nose:
Malty br?l?ed pastry, buttered bread and citrus peel combine in interesting ways with nutty and fruity notes. A sherry like sweetness, spiced orange candy and a light sweet cream come through as hints.

Palate:
Jelly Belly Gummy Orange Slices, dark fruitiness, vanilla and nutty tones take up most of the flavor, but do allow for light notes of cinnamon heavy spice, hay like maltiness and smarties to come through.

Finish:
Hay, butterscotch, nuts, dark fruity gummies, nuts, wood and ash draw the experience to close on a medium fade.

Balance, Body & Feel:
Balance isn?t perfect, but nothing is dominating the dram. Medium body with a smooth easy texture.

Score:
87/100

Overall:
Glenlivet 15 years (French Oak reserve) is tasty. I enjoy the sweet mildly fruity nose that carries some darker undertones as well as the sweet fruity, nutty, spicy palate; it?s not a bad little dram. If you haven?t had it I?d recommend trying it next time you get the chance and at $60 it?s not a terrible deal. When it comes to money and taste the Glenlivet 15 is the best value in their core line up because even though I do like the 18 more, I?m not sure I like it $30+ more. 



As I had previously promised, I need to review an old favorite. Since it's on sale, carpe diem, I bought it yesterday. As you will see, it is very fitting that this review is my tenth, the one that earns me my first tartan. 

Price: $50.99

Nose: pop the bottle and... concord grapes, sweeter than I recall. I am becoming more and more nervous about the bet I made with /u/Scotch_Fanatic. The pour reveals oak and medium age malt in a lovely combination, but mostly all I am getting is "Hey,  I know that smell: Glenlivet French Oak!" 

You see, this scotch and I have a long history. It was this that I bought as my first scotch, at a time when I first had some disposable income as an adult, on a day when I was in the liquor store getting vodka or Jack Daniels or spiced rum to mix drinks: I saw this on sale and thought to myself "Hmmm, I should see if I like scotch; I've heard good things."  It was this that I bought to open in celebration on the day we got word the final agreement had been signed, the company had sold, our stock options had vested, and the wire transfers were in our back accounts. It was this that I was drinking in a bar, and telling my friend about the wood notes when the bartender said "If you like wood and smoke, you should try Lagavulin 16", launching me on the journey that ultimately led me to /r/scotch and /r/scotchswap. Um... sorry. Back to the

Nose: Dry red wine notes arrive a bit later. Extremely subtle bits of these last ones after it's in the glass a while - baked apple, banana, smoke from a wet campfire, sweet chocolate - not at all sure I didn't just make those up. 

Mouthfeel: Smooth, with medium thickness

Taste: Oak. Sometimes musty, sometimes slightly smokey, sometimes dry, but never fresh. Red wine and tart apple beneath the oak. Tastes older than the NAS, 10 year old and 12 year old whiskies I've frequented lately, but not actually old (for example, Buchanan's 18 tasted old). The alcohol content is certainly there, but other tastes are masking it a little bit, and it takes a moment to peel those back. There's a sweetness which is like the love child of an apple dumpling and a vanilla creme brule, conceived on a charred oak bedframe in a burnt out chateau on the grounds of a French vineyard. 

Finish: Short and mild, Aftertaste is sour apple gummy candies

Score 94/100

Buy again? Yes. How could I not? 

Score for the whole experience - whisky plus memories: 100/100



Great review. It is always interesting to hear the stories behind why people like what. I first was introduced to scotch while studying abroad in China. There was a small foreign run bar where I spent a fair bit of time and first delved into scotch. Due to my frequent visits the owner/bartender would always give me Macallan 18 at a discount, and just from having it so much the taste is still very special to me and undeniably one of my favorites.

Just yesterday I picked up two new bottles, an Ardberg Uigeadail and the Glenlivet 15 French Oak.

To be perfectly honest I love the peat flavor of the Ardberg, but the Glenlivet 15 was undeniably a good purchase as well and I would tend to agree with what you said.



Thanks!

Is changing flair a pain in the ... ? I PMed the mods a seasonal adjustment I wanted, but if it's annoying let's not bother. 



Greetings Scotchit! Tonight, another review in the "Wait, What?" series, where I review whiskies that by all rights someone with over 100 reviews should have reviewed about 80 reviews ago. This time, it's Glenlivet 15 French Oak Reserve. 

Right out of the gate, let it be known that I am not a fan of Glenlivet. The 12 is probably my anti-whisky, which I can barely stomach even if someone else is paying for it. And they managed to con me into buying their travel retail Nadurra, bottled at 48% instead of the cask strength I wanted (also, it sucked). Their piss-poor presentation just seals the deal for me, so I barely ever even take a second glance at a Glenlivet. 

However, my attitude towards the distillery isn't the subject today. Today, we're reviewing the 15. Will it change my mind about the third largest Scotch distillery?

Glenlivet 15
Speyside, 40% ABV, chill-filtered, E150, 50ml sample from a friend

Nose: Sweet red apples and toffee. Rich sweetness. Dried apricots. Marmalade. Sweet toasted oak. Slight honey. Hint of bitterness.

This definitely smells like it's from French oak - there's that apricot, jammy note that I only get in French oak whiskies. It's far less tart than the Glenlivet 12 (a good thing), and the bitterness is toned down as well, but there's still a hint of it. Let's hope that doesn't overwhelm the palate.

Taste: Thin, but oily mouthfeel. Rich and sweet. Apricots. Toffee. Toasted oak. Vanilla. Hint of cloves and maybe cardamom? Satsumas.

Very pleasant, actually. Well balanced sweetness with just a hint of spice from the oak. Very much in line with the nose, but that's not a bad thing at all. If anything's amiss, it's that it would definitely benefit from a slightly higher strength - 43% or 46% would liven it up significantly. Definitely waters down very quickly on the tongue.

Finish: Medium length and warming. Immediate hit of toasted oak. Slight cinnamon. Sweet red apples. Overripe oranges. Hint of pepper. Lingering warm woodiness.

A nice hit of oak on the swallow is the biggest note here. A bit of generic spice and sweetness sticks around for a few seconds, leaving that oaky influence around for maybe a minute or so. It's really not bad - the 12 would have me gulping down water at this point to kill the bitter notes. 

Summary: Much like the Glenfiddich 15, this is a departure from the tartness and bitterness of the 12. This, like the 'fiddich was, is a very nice whisky. It's sweet, but not cloying. Rounded, but not excessively so. The closest competitor (and it actually is really close in terms of profile) is Balvenie DoubleWood, but this has far less off notes. This is also scarily drinkable, no matter what pace you're drinking at.

If anything, this should be the standard expression, because it's miles better than the 12, which I'd rate somewhere in the region of 65, but haven't officially reviewed yet. In general, this is really good, and my only real complaint is the poor presentation of it. At this price (~?40-50 per bottle), it's an incredible value, and I much prefer this to the Balvenie DoubleWood. An entry-level whisky that isn't piss-poor, from a huge distillery no less, who'd have thunk it? 

Glenlivet, you are officially off my shit list. But I'm still not calling you The Glenlivet, because fuck that and fuck you.

Score: 81/100
I'm as shocked as you are.

Previous Glenlivet reviews:

Glenlivet 18 - 75/100

Glenlivet Nadurra (Travel Retail, 48% ABV) - 77/100



Have you had the real Nadura yet?

Also, don't hate Glenlivet for having 'The' in front of it. There is a very good historical reason for it.

But you can hate Macallan, Balvenie and any other speyside distilleries that do it.



If you don't mind, could you elaborate on the origin of The in front of the name? 

I just tried looking it up (very briefly as I'm at work) and couldn't find anything. 

Thanks in advance!



Sure, I think this post says it best:

Glenlivet was the first legally licensed distillery in the Spey Valley under the new law passed in 1824. Already well regarded, it became famous in the early 1850s when served to the Royal Household at Balmoral, Queen Victoria's castle in Scotland. Their preference became in effect a Royal endorsement so in the intensely class conscious society of the time every peer, noble, wealthy merchant and society wannabe had to have Glenlivet. It became the Pappy of it's day.

Smelling profits[,] other distillers up and down the Spey Valley and even the small valleys whose streams flowed into the River Spey attached Glenlivet to their name and some even renamed their distillery to include the Glenlivet name.

The practice became so widespread Glenlivet filed suit and in 1880 the Court ruled only they could label their whisky 'The Glenlevit' but also ruled other distillers in the greater Spey area could hyphen attach Glenlivet to their name. This practice of Macallan-Glenlivet, Mortlach-Glenlivet, Tomintoul-Glenlivet, Tamnavulin-Glenlivet, Strathisla-Glenlivet etc, etc, continued until the 1970s when buyouts, mergers, distillery closings and brand realighment brought waves of changes to the industry.



Glenlivet 15yr French Oak Reserve 80 proof

not a bad dram, tasty and smooth. not leaps and bounds better than the Glenlivet 12. recommended as an after dinner palate cleanser much like the 12. good for hot summers as a refresher. 

83/100



The Glenlivet 15

French Oak Reserve

Speyside, 40%

Finished in Limousin oak.

color: deep gold

nose: pears, honey, grapefruit, oak, mint, hint of cocoa, marzipan, floral, baked apple

taste: nutty, bitter lemon, sour apples, oak, cocoa, spices, esp. cinnamon

finish: short

Not very complex or challenging but palatable and very drinkable. Decent stuff.

Dominated by the European oak; adstringent, spicy oak, but not overly so.

85/100



This starts out as the standard Glenlivet 12 year old but get some extra time in ex French Limosine Casks (used for Cognac). It's interesting because it adds a fruity sweetness that isn't sherry. 

Nose: Signature glenlivet caramelised pears.Raisins. Apple Crumble (Rich and sticky). Hints of good armagnac. Thick grape syrup. Honeyed Wood. Sour Cream. Stewed fruit in custard. Sticky Toffee Pudding. 

Palate: Rich wood notes. Raisins. Maple Syrup. Varnish. Cinnamon buns with icing. Dry white wine. 

Finish: Medium length. Rich fruits. Light Spice. Vanilla Toffee. Dry woodiness and woodspice lingers.

Rating: 8.5/10 - Liquid dessert

This is my favourite of all the Glenlivet offerings, it's well priced, well made and delicious. It's sweet without being too sweet, spicy without being too spicy, just plain good whisky. Excellent for after dinner on a cold night. 



The only nadurra is 16 years, there's a regular and a sherried version, tried both, not a fan. The NAS range is new and they haven't started distributing them here yet (thankfully) so I haven't tried them yet. 

EDIT: You are correct, there is now a nadurra NAS. 



Glenlivet 15

The Glenlivet is a widely available Speyside Scotch, that once had the reputation as being the best Single Malt around - that?s why occasionally you?ll see old bottlings of things named Aberlour-Glenlivet, Longmorn-Glenlivet, etc. A judge some time back ruled that other distilleries could use the name Glenlivet, but only the distillery we call Glenlivet today could be called THE Glenlivet. These days, they?re owned by Pernod-Ricard, and seem to pursue volume more than anything?

15 years old. 40% abv. Probably colored and chill filtered. These days, the 15 year undergoes a finishing maturation in French Oak. Thanks to /u/ColeAZ for the sample.

Nose - Caramel, nutty (like peanut or almond brittle?), rosemary, a kind of solventy lemon note, sawdust, vanilla, ginger, black pepper. Interesting mix of aromas here, but doesn?t quite seem to all come together on the nose.

Taste - Caramel, honey, vanilla, picking up some rosemary, lemon, and mild ginger and pepper spice notes as it progresses. Medium-light body - feels kind of smooth, but with a touch of oiliness to it. Better integrated than the nose.

Finish - Lemon, rosemary, mild black pepper, ginger, honey. Very slightly solventy Spice notes linger gently for a bit here, but rather quick.

Not bad, but nothing memorable. I?m not a fan of most of Glenlivet?s core range, as the finish can be too strong with the solvent and plywood notes - I got that a bit here, and while it?s not my favorite thing, it didn?t ruin the experience. The French Oak finish may have help gloss over some of that, though, with some nice vanilla/spice notes. All that said - this is a decent enough introductory single malt, nothing more.

82/100




What is S-W destillate? 

Also, is the 15 comparable to the 12?



S-W distillate = Stitzel-Weller.

I thought the 15 had more sherry influence than the 12, which stayed with more honey/vanilla/pear type flavors.



Oh, right, I get it now... Is it any good?

Also, that's what I had figured. I really like the 12, and the 18 isn't too bad either, but I'd like to try some more Fiddich. I have their 15 DE, 19 Madeira, and the 125th anniversary on my shelf, but haven't opened either yet.



S-W distillate was created from a recipe handed down from God to the Patron Saint of Bourbon, Julian Van Winkle, who oversaw a group of angels that ran the distillery.

The distillery is now closed, though the spirit lives on, through brands such as Pappy Van Winkle's Family Reserve. Many catch only but a glimpse of the greatness via Weller 12.



The original S-W distillate is pretty much gone. The distillery closed towards the end of '91/early '92. Anything these days would be Buffalo Trace wheated mash (with the exception of the Rye, which has a murky provenance), and maaaaybe some wheated Bernheim distillate, but I'm not sure about that.

Not sure what you mean by out of original GTS...that's always been Buffalo Trace mash #1 (low rye), aged 15ish years. They recently ran out of the tanked Sazerac 18 that they'd been putting out for quite some time, next year will be a new batch.



Hi everyone,

Got a large multi-review dump today! I realised just a minute ago, that I haven?t reviewed any Glenlivet on here, or Glenfiddich for that matter but we?ll move to them later maybe. So today I thought I?d share my thoughts on one of the worlds most recognised Scotch brands, The Glenlivet. 

The 12 is seen as a really good entry level and could well have been my first proper single malt, although it was actually Dufftown 12. The 18 can be really good value for money but generally I find Glenlivet an easy drinking whisky for the masses.

?

Glenlivet 15 French Oak Reserve 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Lots of light fruity pear and some apple. Stewed apple, loads of pear drops. Light wood but the pear is quite overpowering. Perfume note, rosewater, hard candy.

Taste: Very, very light. Perfumed and smooth, fruity suggestions of apple and creamy pear, maybe some apple pie and malt.

Finish: Short length. Slips away with a hint of perfumed spice.

Subtle influence from the new French oak, a very floral one.

66/100

?

Great review dump!

I haven't had the 25 year Glenlivet, yet, but the 21 year OB is one of my favorites.  Really seems to shine at that age.  It's not a flavor bomb, of course, but it has fantastic balance (IMO). 



Glenlivet 15 French Oak Cask 

The second youngest in the limited series, the Glenlivet 15 French Oak Cask is aged partially in French oak for a little bit to give it some different characteristics from the 12, yet not too long to overpower the Glenlivet signature "Avon" flavour.

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Price: $65.95 (CAD)

Colour: Pee

Nose: Green apple, oak, smoke, honey, lime, honey heather, floral

At first I found this one very similar to the 12 in the nose, yet as time goes on I am finding the floral notes to be more distinct, the smoke to be more present, and the honey to be a better quality honey (think No. 1 Amber versus Golden).

Taste: Smooth, smoke, orange, lime, burn, pepper, cinnamon, squash, lemon, yeast

Much smoother than the 12 (didn't think that was possible), and some more smoke. Vegetal flavours stop by for a chat, though not a long visit. Also kinda yeasty. Interesting

Finish: Smoke, wood, blueberry, melon, violet, mushroom

The woody and earthy tones set this one apart from it's younger brother, the My Little Pony of Scotch. 

Conclusion: Nicer than the 12, as it has more complexity. I'd call this one the Adventure Time of Scotch. Kinda wacky but you can still recommend it to people without getting odd looks.

78/100

