Tasting notes:

Appearance: Amber +1

Nose [89/100]: Burnt sugar, creme brulee, corn syrup, vanilla.

Taste [88/100]: Very creamy and viscous on the palette. Burnt sugar, nuts and sweet pear, with hints of oak and vanilla.

Finish [86/100]: Dry and spicy with lingering burnt sugar notes.

Total: [88/100] (Note: Total score is 10% Nose + 60% Taste + 30% Finish.)

I love this whisky. Glenfarclas and Springbank both have a burnt sugar note in their whiskies (presumably as they are the only two with direct fired stills) that I absolutely love. It makes me wish that more distilleries would go back to direct firing, as I don't think steam coils produce the same rich caramel flavor.



Submission added to database (but not yet archived in the official Whisky Review Archive, please do so manually).

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Colour: dark gold with a faint ruby hue from the right angle.

Nose: wood,sherry, white wine, mold, farts, cinnamon, sulfur.

Palate: a dry sherry, wood, mint, cinnamon rolls, berries, black pepper, moss.

Finish: vinegar, dirt, sherry.

Abv is 43%.

Rating 52/100

What's going on here? This is the lowest I've rated a single malt on here.  It tastes ultra woody, rotten, and moldy.  But it gets weird... See I've shared this bottle with several friends, including some who know scotch, and they say it's fine.  It seemed off to me the moment I tasted it.  It gets stranger...

I'm a fan of other sherried scotch and I've never encountered this terrible flavour.  Is Glenfarclas really so unique?

Add to this the dram of the 10 year old Glenfarclas I tried... It had the same problem! Do I just have a weird palate for this stuff?  It seems like there's a good whisky in here, it's just overpowered by these very unpleasant notes.  

Stranger still, I love the 10 year old 105 cask strength.

If any Canadian wants to do a swap, perhaps you can tell me if I'm onto something with this or if my palate just doesn't enjoy Glenfarclas.



Wow finally a review of this that I agree with. I think it sucks and tastes like bitter farts. Glenfartass I call it.

I don't get the love it gets, its terrible and I rarely hate a whisky.



You're not wrong. Bought this myself a while a go by a recommendation of a store clerk. It is truly awful and overpriced. 

I actually can't find a flavour-palate at all. It's just mashed together, like if you take one of the cheapest blended and mix it with water. 

Avoid it. I use mine for cleaning. 



Getting through a backlog of notes, this is the first chunk.

I had a 15 and 21 master of malt sample? And then someone bought me the set of miniatures.. Which was nice of them.
I went through the miniatures a bit at a time, then had half a dram of each with the 2 MoM samples to compare them all side by side.

Glenfarclas 10

Glenfarclas 12

(Think the seal may have been broken.. The levels a little low and it tasted surprisingly different to the 10?!)

Again, worried that this may not be a fair try of the 12 and that its been oxidised. Compared to the 10, more smooth finish, less strong nose, a little more green in there and not as spicy. Different, more complex, but I wouldn?t say it?s better than the 10 , I like different things about them both. I prefer some of the 10 flavours and definitely the nose but the 12 is better balanced..


Distiller: Glenfarclas

Age:12 years

ABV: 43%

Price: $50

Eye: 
Light caramel

Nose:
Light and smooth aromas of fruit, sherry and dark sweets like caramel and toffee intermingle with hints of vermouth and melon.

Palate:
Sherry and a complex fruit come through with notes of banana, peach, apricot and red apple. A bit of spice shows up and notes of honey, dark sweets and a mild earthiness join the party and add a nice bit of dimension to the flavor.

Finish:
A bit dry but fueled by fruit and sherry and peppered with spice and an ambiguous sweetness.

Balance, Body & Feel:
Everything?s in harmony and rides in on a medium body that has a smooth texture and minimal heat.

Score:
84/100

Overall:
Sherry dipped fruit drizzled with dark sweets on the nose with a palate and finish to match, it?s a little basic, but well put together. I?m enjoying it quite a bit and I like the way the darker notes play off of the sweeter lighter fruit notes with the sherry weaving in-between everything. It?s a tasty, simple, sherried highland single malt that comes together nicely and I?m really glad I picked it up. A good straightforward daily drinker.



Glenfarclas 12

Color: Golden brown

Nose: That lovely honey sweetness I often find in sherried whiskies, along with notes of cherries. 

Palate: The sherry influence is pronounced, and the palate delivers what the nose promised with more honey sweetness. 

Body: Lightly oily with a light/ medium body. 

Finish: Long and lingering, spices and vanilla show up, with a tobacco note late into the finish. 

Summary: The nose was pleasant, but not overly complex to me, and I was a bit disappointed that the palate followed suit with a few straightforward flavors, but then the finish sold me on this dram. The finish features some evolving flavors that I didn't detect at first, but they open up and change as the taste lingers on the tongue. This is a scotch I would recommend for someone who wants to see how a good finish can really improve a whisky. 

Score: 87/100 (Very good)

Edit: Scotch Review #6

Whisky Review #7



Glenfarclas 12 - 43% ABV

Nose: Sweet, sherry, lemon zest, cake

Palate: Medium to light weight.  Berries, powdered sugar, plum, some oak

Finish: Rather short but nice.  Spice and oak and bit of dark berry fruit

Score: 87/100

I picked this up after reading about it here.  Very similar to Macallan, maybe a bit sweeter and nicer, and certainly cheaper.  :)  I think I'll be keeping a bottle of this as a mainstay in my liquor cabinet as long as the price stays so reasonable.



Glenfarclas 12 - 43% ABV

Nose: Sweet, sherry, lemon zest, cake

Palate: Medium to light weight.  Berries, powdered sugar, plum, some oak

Finish: Rather short but nice.  Spice and oak and bit of dark berry fruit

Score: 87/100

I picked this up after reading about it here.  Very similar to Macallan, maybe a bit sweeter and nicer, and certainly cheaper.  :)  I think I'll be keeping a bottle of this as a mainstay in my liquor cabinet as long as the price stays so reasonable.



Glenfarclas 12 year old 86 proof

Gets its sweetness from the sherry finish cask.

91/100



GLENFARCLAS VERTICAL! Very excited for this. I was going to wait till I get the 15yr in a swap but none of my potential swaps have it on the menu and I needed to empty some bottles for secret santa :P I picked up the 105 in Calgary airport this past summer and received the drams in 2 in-person swaps earlier this year! Big thanks to my Canadian compadres, /u/KaptianKrush for the Glenfarclas 12 yr & /u/TOModera for the 17. Let's do this thing!

Glenfarclas tends to get generally positive reviews notwithstanding some major dissidents. I'm a fan but not a fanboy. Still hoping to try the 15 to see how it measures up!

edit: @review_bot scotch



Special shout out to /u/Allumina for this (now not as much) elusive to me beginner's dram.

And a special shout out that I've nearly completed reviews of all the beginners' drams! Yay me!

Soon I'll be trying to finish up the advanced drams (of which all but one are staring at me, waiting to be drank).

But enough anthropomorphism, what am I drinking today? Why, it's the Sherried dram with the Cherry Jam, Glenfarclas 12. Yay!

Had a hard time finding this one, as for some reason it wasn't in any pub I go to, AND the LCBO had sold out of it. Luckily I swapped for some.

Glenfarclas means valley of the green grass.... ooooohhh. They sum up that their signature flavour comes from the size of their stills (largest in the Highlands) and their ingredients. Also sounds like a rave chicks bush, if I'm honest.

However I'd say it's the sherry casks that give it the distinctive taste (the Glenfarclas, not the rave chicks snatch). It's just like Highland Park, who uses sherry casks on everything, that gives Glenfarclas their flavour.

But enough jibber jabber, let's get to the slipper slapper (dram that is).

Price: $75.20 (CAD)

Region: Speyside

Abv: 43%

Colour: Light Gold

Nose: Currant, cinnamon, honey, violets, plums, light wheat

You have that initial "Fuck yeah there's sherry influence" right away, with the spice and the currants. Eventually there's some floral notes, however... well, if you don't like sherry, turn back, here be Sherry dragons.

Taste: Strawberry, cloves, cinnamon, hot, brown sugar

Again, there's a fruitiness here that is very "Farclas" in taste. As well, compared to the 10 year, a much thicker mouth feel, more than you'd expect with a 2 year difference. Not too complex, and a little bit hotter than I'd prefer.

Finish: Cranberry sauce, orange rind, pineapple, black pepper, cloves, ginger

And not "From the can" Cranberry sauce, I'm talking homemade, filled with more sugar than anything considered part of the main course Cranberry sauce. And spicy too!

Conclusion: Glenfarclas does sherried whisky. That's the main thing. And as the second bump in the line, this shows that off quite well. The finish and mouthfeel are better than the 10 year.

That all said, while this is nice, the older versions are nicer, and Aberlour makes a more complex dram after 12 years. The Glenfarclas 12 is less expensive (or at least used to be), has more of that sherry one note punch, and would be a good way to start trying Sherry whisky.

77/100

Scotch review #173, Speyside #51

Other Glenfarclas reviews:

Glenfarclas 10

Glenfarclas 15

Glenfarclas 21



you haven't yet reviewed the 17 yet eh? 

i got the 17 from you, the 12 from KaptianKrush, and am looking for samples of the 15 so i can do a vertical sometime soon!



I actually just did, the review is in another link (put up 5 minutes after this one).

I really liked the 15 as well. You should be able to find it, the LCBO has it right now.



gave it a read. sounds quite tasty!

i decided not to buy any more bottles of scotch this year as my AMEX bill was coming in pretty high each month :P

sticking with swaps for a while. 

(and yes, i'm only prohibiting myself from scotch purchases... which is why i could still spring for the Forty Creek Evolution)
