Glenfarclas 15  90

A permanent fixture in the cabinet.  I?ve had good and bad bottles, but when good it is sublime, among my favorites.  Rich, with a dry walnut and nougat nuttiness.

Similar malts: Glengoyne 21 is much spicier, less toffee. Aberlour 18 lacks the same depth but is fruitier. I also connect Glenmorangie?s Signet, though it?s less sherry-nutty and more chocolate/malty.   (Glendronach?s 15yo Revival is not similar; it is sweeter, less salty, less traditional ?malt?.)
The Glenfarclas 12 is less rich and nutty, but I find it interesting that the 15yo seems less fruity with grape.  Glenfarclas 25 is similar in character, but deeper with cocoa and less ?lively? from younger spirit; the 15yo gives a brighter feeling. 



Glenfarclas 15 (Single Malt, Speyside, 5cl, 46% ABV, 15 Years Old, Non-Chill Filtered, No Colour Added)

Price: This taster-sized bottle was $16 CAD, and a full bottle goes for $123 CAD.

Tasted:  A little (oddly yellow) taster bottle I bought as an introduction to the Glenfarclas line, mostly to see if I thought it was worth it to pick up a bottle of Glenfarclas 105.  

Colour:  Amber +2

Nose:  Stale rubber, graham crackers, musty grapes, nitrile gloves, ginger, dates, cinnamon, brown sugar cookies, gingersnaps, molasses, raw cookie dough, natural raw honey, slight tinge of egg yolk, slight saltiness, grape fruit punch, faint peat smoke and oak, ground almond meal, sudden strong uncooked barley flakes, maltiness, hint of blackberry preserves, heather. Adding a drop or two of water reveals a spice melange featuring pink peppercorn, lemon, additional heather, and a slight buttery note.

Palate: Neat ? Dry red wine, fish and marzipan, spices and cherries, artichoke dip, tannic oak note, sweet cherry syrup, maraschino cherries, dark chocolate, still-frozen waffles, orange rind, lightly steeped black tea, heather ale. With water ? Stomach acid, acidic raisins, intense white pepper, lemon zest and white grapes, Mrs. Dash seasoning mix, pepper returns, more pepper, lemon pepper cod.

Finish:  Neat ? Cherries, cherries, cherries, maraschino cherries covered in dark chocolate, dry red wine returns, yeasty/fungal fishy note returns, barley flakes, after a while a slight tinge of pickling brine, followed by chocolate covered almonds and grape/cherry jam. Long, but somewhat subdued. Ends with a slightly fungal onion note. With water ? Intense note of cinnamon candy followed by Pez candy, Sweet Tarts, Nerds?it?s like walking down a candy aisle. Ends with a slight burst of fresh apples.  

Packaging/Design:  This was a taster, so not much to say. Screwcap, label wasn?t crooked or anything, no tasting notes provided, which is actually kind of a plus in my book. 

Conclusion: I?ve not read up much on Glenfarclas, but I know people love it. I?ve never heard anyone describe it as oniony or fishy, so maybe my bottle was an odd batch. Furthermore, most photos I?ve seen of ?farclas 15 look darker, browner, more sherried. This one was golden-yellow city. Bizarre notes aside, I rather like it. Complex, nicely balanced between the slightly unsettling notes and the wonderful sweet ones. With the addition of water this changes considerably: The sweet decadent notes disappear from the palate; instead everything is a lemony, pepper extravaganza. The sweet notes return super-charged in the finish in the form of chalky, sugar-laden, sour candy. I really dig it with water (other than an occasional note of stomach acid), without it it?s just a bit messy.

85/100.  

@Review_Bot

(This is review #20! Tartan time?)



/u/noblearc's  reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



I've been meaning to try this distillery for a while, and after hearing that this one won best somethingorother I figured I'd better pick it up before it becomes impossible to find or ridiculously expensive. 

As it turns out, I don't think this is distributed in the US at all. I found a bottle at a wine auctioneer/consignment shop for $64, which I think is pretty decent.

Glenfarclas 15

Price: $64/700ml

Region: Highland

ABV: 46%

Nose: Imagine being hit in the face with a Sherry-flavored cream pie. Werther's Original candies. Caramel. Some nice but light cinnamon spice. Crisp green apples, toffee crunch. More woody than I'd expect from a 15 year old.

Palate: Nice and creamy sherry-filled body. 46% abv provides a nice hefty alcohol note but doesn't detract (I think it covers up the lack of depth in the palate). More toffee, some nice spices. 

Finish: Quite long and spicy hot. Drier than I expected. Some pruney/red fruit notes at the tail. At the far end I'm getting a bitter malt that I don't really care for.

88/100

Glenfarclas says the nose is "deliciously peated", the palate has "peaty flavors", and the tail is "gently smoky". None of that is true. (They said other things that are mostly right, but these don't belong.) I was actually worried after I bought it and read the distillery's description because I thought I fucked up and bought a bottle I wasn't going to enjoy. The only thing I was unhappy with is that bitter note in the tail of the long finish.

It's really quite nice! It's heavily sherried and hits most of the major chords you'd expect with that, though the palate was a bit simple. Love the nose though. No complaints there!

If you can find it for a reasonable price, try it. If you can't, don't beat yourself up over it. There are a hundred different "[blank]s of the year".



Thanks! This is the first I've tried from them and I'm happy with it, but it hasn't made me want to run out and try more from them immediately. I just saw your review of the 175th edition-- looks like it had a much more robust palate but a similar down note on the finish. 

Cheers!



My first Glenfarclas review, and I decided to review the core range blind. Never mind the 105 in the pic; I didn't include that because I thought the ABV would be too much of a giveaway. A good thing, too, because tasting these five got me a little too tipsy. These are presented in the order they were in front of me after I mixed them up. Everything in spoiler tags was written after the reveal.

Nose: Grape, oat, menthol

Taste: Malty, nice mouthfeel, some bittersweet oak, cacao.

Finish: Turns more bitter, oaky but in a good way, these nice woody notes mingling with cacao and coffee.. 

This one reminds me of Highland Park 12. A nice all-rounder in the malty middle. Really hits that bittersweet dark chocolate note I dig in some malts. 87/100

Nose: Woof. Funky like socks. Mushrooms.

Taste: Slightly watery. Apple/pear a la Glenlivet. Bit of citrus and oak on development. 

Finish: Malt and lemon.

The nose threw me for a loop but it comes out pretty nice on the palate. Funny how that works sometimes. 85/100

Nose: Deep, tangy wine. 

Taste: Floral. Vanilla, toffee, creme brulee.

Finish: Quite nice with cacao/coffee notes.

A nice polite dram, not stellar but respectably sippable. 86/100

Nose: Musty old books. Gin.

Taste: Watery, cardboardy. Kinda tastes like communion wafers, which, if you aren't Catholic, isn't a great thing, FYI.

Finish: A bit burny and metallic.

Not a recommended buy from me. Not bad, just a bit rough and blah. Good for a scotch and soda perhaps. 74/100

Nose: Earthy. Mushrooms.

Taste: Animal crackers, malt, cinnamon.

Finish: Turns sourish. A bit rum-like, too. Molasses.

Eh, it's a bit blah. On the sweeter side palate-wise, if you like that. 81/100

Well, jeez, turns out I ranked them exactly in order of age. Nailed it?? I was really hoping for some kind of upset here but interesting to know that sometimes age really does matter. Major takeaways: although the 21 and 25 are the best, I wouldn't buy them at the price they command. I think the 15 is the only one I would consider buying.



Nose: Woof. Funky like socks. Mushrooms.

That's one of the more unique ways I've heard someone describe scotch!



Glenfarclas 15yo 46%. Sherry Casks.

Nose: Sherry, a bit plum spread, raisins, dried fruits/apricots, marzipan

Mouth: Sherry, oak, dry, a bit tanins

Finish: Fruity, sherry, a bit oak, red fruits - lingering all the way to the end, medium long

Comment: Excellent nose - there is a lot to discover, so take time nosing this. The rest falls a bit flat compared to the nose but still solid. Generally the nose is the strong point of all three Glenfarclas imo.

83 points


ABV:  46 %

Colour: Golden Amber

Nose: Give this dram some time to open up! The Sherry is very present which makes sense as this whisky matured for 15 long years in Sherry Wood. I also get Mineral and Floral tones (Heather, Straw) as well as Caramel/Toffee/Butterscotch, Oak, Malt, Cocoa, Fruitcake with Raisins and Nuts and, unfortunately, some Sulphur. Very light Spices (Cinnamon, Ginger) and hints of Cherries and Honey. It's okay but I had expected more from this Glenfarclas. Sherry and Toffee dominate. It's a bit more complex but slightly less balanced than the Glenfarclas 12.

Palate: Good delivery with Sherry, Creamy Fruitcake with Raisins, Nuts and Citrus Peel, Spice, Cereals, Caramel/Toffee, Rum, Oak, Nuts, Brown Sugar and light Licorice.

Finish: Middle-Long with Nuts, Sherry, Oak, Red Fruit, Mustard, White Pepper and Nutmeg.

I added a bit of water and Blossom, Butter, Honey, Cooked Apples and extra Butterscotch and Caramel make themselves known on the Nose. Palate and Finish do not change too much but become a bit more mellow. This dram certainly accepts some water.

Rating:  84 

Nose: 21  - Taste: 21.5 - Finish: 20.5  - Overall: 21

General Remarks: The Glenfarclas 15 Years matured in Sherry Wood. It is believed that a lot of the whisky in the 15 is actually older. It costs around 55 US Dollars.

Drinking Experience Neat: Good

Conclusion: Sometimes you take a sip and you immediately fall in love with a whisky. That's not the case here for me. Of course it depends a lot whether you like Sherried whiskies. Personally, I love it when the Sweet Sherry enhances the other flavours. But in this case the Sherry dominates the rest and that's not quite to my liking. It's certainly not a bad Sherried Speysider but I would rather recommend Aberlour A' Bunadh Batch 37 CS if you're in to this type of whisky!



LOWLAND & SPEYSIDE REGIONS

REVIEW #20: Auchentoshan Three Wood - 43% abv 

Nose: Cherries, Caramel, Sherry

Taste:Chocolate covered cherries, black forest cake, salted caramel

Finish: Some wood, fruit, salted caramel.  Something in the end tastes a little metallic / acrid.  Not sure what it is, but both of us picked up on it and disliked that detail.

Score: 75/100

Buy a full bottle? No

Closing Thoughts: Not much to write home about with this one, perhaps because it was surrounded by sherry monsters, but that acrid note in the finish was off putting. May have just been something wrong with our sample. We?ve tasted the same note in Glenfiddich 12 and 15 Solera and took points off then too.


REVIEW #26: Glenfarclas 15 year - 46% abv 

Nose: Walnuts, mint, custard?

Taste: Raisins, orange zest, dates or figs, the cake around a fig newton?

Finish: Very long, lingering walnuts.

Score: 87/100

Buy a full bottle? No, only because it?s not available in the USA

Closing Thoughts: It was good enough that I?ll seek out a sample of the 17yo.

REVIEW #27: Balvenie 12 year Single Barrel - 47.8% abv 

Nose: Toffee, apples, caramel, toasted?something.

Taste: Nose carries over, added sweetness

Finish: Long, warm, lasting flavors.  Fantastic.

Score: 88/100

Buy a full bottle? No (only because the 15yo Single Barrel Sherry Cask is better)

Closing Thoughts: I liked this more than the DoubleWoods.  It had more going on, more heat, more aroma.  Good stuff.  What I?m finding is that Balvenie is a consistent quality.  Good to know.




Story time. So I head over to my local bottle shop one night before a party. Friend grabs some beers, ready to head out, when I spot this Glenfarclas sampler containing a full bottle of the 15, as well as two 50mL samples of the 21 and 25, all for just under $100. Given that the same store had the 15 for $107, I considered this a bargain and picked it up without a second thought.

Now it?s Saturday night, and for once I have no plans nor need to wake up early for church in the morning. The stars have aligned. Funkadelic?s spinning on the turntable, and I?m ready for my one-man voyage into the sherried cosmos of Glenfarclas.

Glenfarclas 15. Speyside Single Malt, aged 15 years in oak casks and sherry butts, bottled at 46% ABV. Non chill-filtered, no added colouring. Bottle price: $107 for 700mL.

Nose: Sherry extravaganza. Christmas cake, milk chocolate, creamy vanilla over some juicy pears. Jelly beans! The official tasting notes say there should be some peat lurking around somewhere, but I can?t find it. Certainly no phenol/medicinal notes to be found here.

Palate: Velvety and rich. Syrupy honey notes dancing around the back of the tongue, a delicious shiraz at the front. Love the 46% ABV here: not enough for particularly strong alcohol burn, but enough to deliver a flavour explosion. This could probably take a drop of water if you?re so inclined, however I?m having no problems keeping this neat.

Finish: Long, warming finish. Sweet dried cherries are balanced well with light cocoa and coffee bitterness.

I?m in love. This is wonderfully rich; an enormously complex array of flavours and not one of them bad. 




I feel a need to preface this review with a few details.  Firstly, I love the IDEA of Glenfarclas.  Independent, Scottish Family owned for generations, natural colour, and supposedly a strong commitment to providing quality sherry cask matured single malts at reasonable prices.  Sounds great!  I?ve purchased 4 full sized bottles of Glenfarclas in my life (and I?ve got a mini of the 40 year old waiting for a special occasion).  The 10 year 105 cask strength was awesome, as was a 25 year old ex-bourbon cask I.B.  I was somewhat taken aback when I opened my bottle of Glenfarclas 12.  I felt it had terrible musty, putrid notes.  I figured the bottle I purchased was off.  I rated it the lowest I?ve rated a single malt and you can read my notes by following the link at the bottom of this review.  I wasn?t going to give up on Glenfarclas.  Everyone deserves a second chance, right?  So I dropped some of my hard earned money on a bottle of the 15.  Here?s what followed.

Glenfarclas 15

Nose:  Oak, syrup, sulphur, incredibly woody, sherry, mold, grapes, red wine, rotten celery, 

Palate: Sherry, oak, sulphur, manure, christmas cake, Terry?s chocolate orange, raisins.

Finish:  Cinnamon, brown sugar, oak, sulphur, black pepper, raisins, cardamom, corn syrup.

The sherry richness is huge here.  It tastes older than 15 years.  There?s a huge oak taste, which may be from the wood or may be from the horrible rotten notes.  Oh the rotten notes.  Rotten for days.  Worse than the 12.  Imagining a bad, rotten, very old sherry cask, this is what comes to mind.  The sulphur and rot is just way too strong here.  If I could remove these off notes and keep the sherry intensity, this would be great.  

46% abv.

41/100




I felt it had terrible musty, putrid notes.

This is why I like it.



Perhaps the difference between the 15 and 17 confirms that I did indeed receive a second (?) bad bottle? 

I'd like to think it was mere bad luck, hopefully never to be repeated. My bottle of the 15 has some sharp sulfur and a strong taste of the peelings, i.e. skin not flesh, of a red apple after they've been left out to oxidize, which is something I also pick up in other Glenfarclas and for me is a distinctive signature of the distillery, but nothing rotten, moldy or like manure. Sorry about that.

Strangely, the only 2 scotches [knocks on wood] that I've ever had problems with the corks going bad, i.e. rotten, crumbly and they fell down into the bottle which had to be decanted as a result, were both Glenfarclas. But if your bottle had a bad cork surely you'd have noticed this, so that can't be the cause in your case.



Getting through a backlog of notes, this is the first chunk.

I had a 15 and 21 master of malt sample? And then someone bought me the set of miniatures.. Which was nice of them.
I went through the miniatures a bit at a time, then had half a dram of each with the 2 MoM samples to compare them all side by side.

Glenfarclas 10

Glenfarclas 15

Punchier and better flavours than the previous two, but not massively better.

