Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban

Age: 12 years

Strength: 46%

Color: Amber

Nose: Plums, cherries, fruit gummies, grenadine.

Palate: It's unsurprisingly port-like, and oh do I like port! There's a rich sweetness from the bourbon aging.

Body: This guy has some burn to it, like I would expect from a bourbon. I would call it medium body, low on the oiliness.

Finish: The fruit dominates the finish at first, and fades leaving the woody flavors to linger.

Summary: This is not a scotch that goes down easy to me, but damn does it have a ton of flavor! I like to keep a bottle of this around since it's a great bang for your buck. 

Score: 88/100 (Damn tasty!)

Edit: Scotch Review #10

Whisky Review #14



Greetings Scotchit! You know those really entry-level Scotches that you've never reviewed? This is one of mine. Really, it's more due to trying it so early on in my Scotch career and not reviewing it.

Anyway, this is Glenmorangie's port-finished release, a sample of which I received from /u/SparkTrader. I don't like Glenmorangie's 10, but I do like port, so will I enjoy this?

Let's find out!

Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban
Highland, 46% ABV, NCF, E150?, 50ml sample from /u/SparkTrader

Nose: Jam. Berries. Malt. Caramel. Waxy. Paprika. Lime juice. Red apples.

Interesting nose on this - lots of dark sweetness, but not quite as dark as sherry influence.

Taste: Prickly mouthfeel. Caramel. Berries. Toffee. Oak. Brown sugar. Wax. Slight soap. Wine tannins. Dirt.

Still pretty interesting - more dirt type flavours here than on the nose. 

Finish: Medium length. Slightly bitter. Caramel. Oak tannins. Red wine. Dirt.

Goes down a bit bitter, but lasts a decent time and if you tolerate bitterness then this'll be up your alley.

Summary: I'm honestly surprised - Glenmorangie has never really impressed me before, and this is really rather decent. The biggest black mark on this is that bitter finish, which has never really worked for me, but considering how many people like malts that I regard as bitter, it probably won't put off too many others.

So that's a good thing for most people and I'll give this my cautious recommendation. Considering the price, there's really nothing wrong with this as an intro into ported whisky (I'm making it official, this is now a term like peated or sherried). 

Score: 75/100
Good.

Most Similar To: Glenfiddich 15, Aberlour 12.

Buy Again? Probably not, but might recommend it to beginners.



I really like the quinta ruban. think it's the best value for a non-related scotch out there at that price point. 

what would you recommend instead for a non-peated scotch around the same price? 



No idea. Honestly, I don't think I've bought a Scotch at that price point for years, at least an unpeated one. The cheapest whisky in my normal rotation is Amrut Fusion, but that's peated.

That's largely because I don't think unpeated Scotch becomes good until it's, like, 25 years old or sherried (in which case the limit is something like 8). I know that's not what you want to hear, but that's been my experience.



I mean, I'm looking around my Scotch collection and I don't think anything has retailed for less than at least ~$80.

So when people ask me for recommendations at QR level I'm a bit lost because I think most of it's a bit rubbish. But it improves pretty quickly to a plateau at around Uigeadail/A'bunadh level. Buy that stuff and ignore the entry level, because it's all mass produced crap.



To my mind you're bang on the money. Though I have been impressed by the likes of Bunna 12. 

But it improves pretty quickly to a plateau at around Uigeadail/A'bunadh level. Buy that stuff and ignore the entry level, because it's all mass produced crap.

This is the point I labour to a lot of my friends who want to get into whisky. Spend that ?15 extra. At ?25-35 you're getting ripped off. At ?40-50 there's a lot of value to be found. 



Bunna 12 isn't bad if you like the profile. I don't, but can't fault people who do.

Pleated there are decent offerings as well - Ardbeg 10, QC, Machir Bay. 



I've up voted you but not because I agree with you.  I'm just getting into scotch so I am mostly focused on the entry level stuff right now.  I don't think you or anyone else that can appreciate and afford more expensive whisky is an elitist snob.  I suppose there may be some of that sentiment out there but from my perspective, I am not really looking at reviews of the super advanced, rare and expensive stuff. Therefore, I am not up voting it either. I suppose that is why you don't get a ton of up votes for reviews of more advanced stuff.  I try and remember to up vote every review I read regardless of rating as they contribute to the community and it tells me that I have already read the review. 

I haven't been here long but I have learned to ignore up votes and down votes.  They seem to have nothing to do with whether or not the comment or review contributes to the community and more to do with whether people agree with the comment. 

I think you might have received a few down votes because people disagree with the sentiment that entry level stuff is mostly rubbish.  You shouldn't be getting down voted for that opinion....Just like the more advanced people shouldn't down vote or crap on reviews and ratings by newbies.



I don't think newbie reviews do get downvoted, especially by more experienced members. Low-effort content like DAE or whisky porn does. 

And I don't mind the lower upvotes for rare whisky. I do think it's a bit silly how beginners influence the content here. 



Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban, 48% ABV

I decided to review this before I finish the bottle. I also needed something to get the taste of Blairmhor out of my mouth.

Colour: Amber with a burgundy tint.

Nose: Port, ripe nectarines, dried prunes and honey. Very fruity and sweet with a bit of oak.

Taste: Too sweet intially, but tones down quickly. Cinnamon and vanilla beans. Dried grapes and poached pear.

Finish: Peppery, spicy and a bit nutty. Burnt sugar. Medium and pleasant.

I'm not a big Glenmorangie fan. This one is okay and I prefer it to the Original and Lasanta, I haven't tried the Nectar d'Or. The Astar and Signet are very, very good.

80/100

Thanks for reading.



I prefer it to the Original and Lasanta

I just got a bottle of this and tried it last night.  So far my ranking would be Nectar D'Or, Lasanta, then Quinta Ruban (haven't had the original).  Maybe I'm just more of a fan of sherry than port. :)



I haven't tried the Lasanta for a while and I want to try the Nectar d'Or without buying a whole bottle. Next time one of my friends travel I'll try and get them to buy me one of those Glenmorangie samplers. 

I guess I prefer this one because of the 'portiness' and it's different to the others.



I actually can't drink wine because I think I'm allergic. I have the occasional sip and I don't mind it.

Last time I had a glass of red, I got very drunk and very itchy.



Thanks for the review!

This is also my favorite Glenmorangie. 

I was lucky enough to grab a couple bottles last year at a tasting in my local cigar club. 
We tried the 10 (Original), 12 year, 18 Year, Nectar D'or, Lasanta, Quinta Ruban, and the Signet. 

Out of all of them the Quinta Ruban was by far my favorite choice out of all of them, excluding the Signet. 
Considering that the average retail for this one is only ~5-10USD More than the 12 Year it was a no brainier. 



This is my favorite of the ?entry level? Glenmorangie line (10YO, QR, LaSanta, Nectar), and I think it?s awesome that they did the three different finishes all in a price range where you can compare them against each other (with the Nectar being slightly more). I found the LaSanta overly sherried, and don?t remember being all that impressed by the Nectar. These all pale in comparison to the Signet, of course, but that?s in a wholly different price league.

?

Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban 12 YO ? 46%

?

Average score to date: 75.5

?

You know, I remember liking this one a lot more. I wonder if I wrecked my palate earlier in the day with some sriracha, shame. I?ll have to plan a little better next time, but if anyone has recommendations on something that could help ?restore? those tastebuds it would be appreciated.

All that said, it?s a nice, flavorful whiskey, but I remember it being a lot better when I first had it a couple of years ago. I?ll circle back to the bottle I still have sealed to see how it goes on a clean palate.

?

Would I rebuy a bottle? I?ll probably seek a different port finish to keep myself entertained, or I?ll spring the extra $20 for the Arran.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  My experience with Glenmorangie has been:  Original...meh weak..  La Santa... ugh unbalanced mess... and that's enough of that!  Then a couple months ago I saw this sampler pack in stores for $25(IIRC).  It looked like a great way to try the Glenmorangies without wasting a bunch on a bad bottle.  However the 4 pack still had the original and La Santa, so I passed it by for better spirits.  THEN I was at a store this last week and I found that they had these packs but also some freed samples of Nectar D'or and Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban 92 proof for only $5 each.  So naturally I jumped at that no-brainer and I'm glad I did.

finally a Glenmorangie I could get behind.  Really good stuff and reminds me of the Balvenie Portwood which costs a small fortune especially if you buy it in a bar for $37 a glass... (it was my bday!  They didnt tell me the price ahead of time!).  This Port Cask is highly recommended and I may just buy the bottle now.  I didn't grab the Nectar D'or  sample but I will tomorrow for sure.  I hate writing off entire Distilleries but if your entry level whisky doesnt make me want to explore your higher priced whiskies, then that's your fault.  Glenmorangie did themselves a service though, by putting out the sampler pack.  

92/100



I just had a Glenmorangie tasting where I got to try The Original, a 22yo sherry cask sample, Quinta Ruban, Nectar D'or and Signet.

Nectar D'or was my favorite there and although I liked both Quinta Ruban and The Signet the Nectar came out on top. I recommend!

Sadly I didnt have pen and paper to take notes. :(



Nice review. 

BIG fan of the entire Glenmorangie line.



This was the scotch that made me realize that I liked scotch (or any whisky for that matter), so it will always have a special place in my heart.

For anybody reading this in Brooklyn, the location was the bar in your neck of the woods called Cornelius, which is also known for its oysters, which I also learned that I enjoyed that same night. Ended up being one of my favorite places ever, basically. Definitely recommend the place.



Glenmorangie is a great distillery and produce some of the better younger whiskies on the market. This one is finished in Port pipes. I like port.

Nose: Gunpowder. Plum pudding. Raisins. Dark sticky fruits. White pepper. Potpourri. Cherry liqueur. Sweet wood sap. Biscotti. Amaretto.

Palate: Dry red wine. Dark juicy cherries. Christmas pudding. Woodspice. Iced cinnamon bun. 

Finish: Long. Dry red fruits. Ruby grapefruit. Rich wood. The good cough syrup from childhood. 

Rating: 9/10

Love this stuff. One of the better fruity whiskies, got the fruit but isn't alcoholic juice. Not badly priced and consistently good.  



So I really really dislike the Glenmo 10.  I would give it somewhere between a 55 and a 65 depending on the time of day and the way the sun shines through the trees.  This gets a bump of about 15 - 20 points for two reasons - 1) ABV bump and 2) Finish.  Both of those things bring it up. 




Glenmorangie is a Highland distillery, where "The sixteen men of Tain" make Scotch on behalf of LVMH (Louis Vuitton Moet Hennessy), the luxury conglomerate who are also kind enough to make Ardbeg for us.

Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban

The Quinta Ruban is a 12 year old whisky finished in port casks. 46% abv. Non chill filtered.

Nose - Red grape juice, cherries, malt, clove, pepper, vanilla, maybe some honey too. Again, it doesn?t seem like they skimped on the finishing maturation, but this doesn?t seem overwhelmingly ?porty?.

Palate - Cherries and red grape juice again, a malty note that reminds me of grape nuts, honey, mild baking spice. Grape juice/cherry notes grow increasingly tart on the development. Medium-plus body, feels kind of thick. Rather fruity.

Finish - The malty cherry/red grape juice theme continues with with some nutmeg, clove, and peppery spiciness.

I?m rather enjoying this one. The fruit notes the port finish brings are a nice addition to the ?usual? malty/bourbon cask characteristics. Nothing here wows me, but it?s a solid whisky.

85/100

and finally we get to the Quinta Ruban, the /r/scotch darling of the lineup. I do love a good port finish, which is why I'm starting to work on a full series of port finished whiskies right now. Looking forward to adding this to the mix once I'm ready to post that series.  the leve on this mini was down to the shoulder of the bottle which makes me worry it wasn't air tight. guess i'll see. 

Appearance: dark peachy red.generous legs. Looks promising

Nose: definitely a port finish! Dark red fruits, peppery spice, rich sugary nose. 

Taste: lots of port influence for sure - chocolate, berries, cherries. Less of the tobacco note I look for in port finishes but still present. Much more creamy than the rest of the lineup. Heavy tannic oak and very winey. has a rubbery note too. This one also melds well with the spirit.

Finish: fruity and long

Score: 87/100

definitely my favourite of the bunch, but I am biased towards port. It just tastes a lot more balanced and more mature than the others. If this was more affordable in Ontario I'd buy a bottle.  A nice finish to the series. 



I personally don't care for Glenmorangie, as it simply is too light for my taste. Nice reviews, though (as always).

I hear that the new Lasanta, which is only 43% abv, is much better than the old version. We'll see in the Community Review!



Special thanks to /u/EMoneySC2 for the excellent swap we did 3 months ago. This drams for you (as you supplied me with it).

Went up north this past weekend, and was surrounded by a group of people all enjoying whisky (and rum, but that's another subreddit). Specifically whiskies I brought to share. Because seriously, sharing whisky is pretty sweet.

Up first was time to share my sample of Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban. My buddy doesn't like sherry casks, so I made sure to find something with port. He also told me he likes the Madeira cask finished one of these, so that's something I'll have to hit him up at some point.

Anyway, this particular version of Glenmorangie is treated to the typical 10 years of American White oak, and then put into ruby port pipes from the Quintas (wine estates of Portugal).

Thus the name: Quinta, for the region where the pipes aren't a calling, and Ruban, for the ruby colour. Granted I don't speak Portuguese, and I've been know to get these things wrong before, so for all I know they make all the workers eat 4 Reuben sandwiches before working on the whisky, thus scaring off potential thieves.

Because seriously, Sauerkraut farts will scare off anyone with a nose.

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Highland

Abv: 46%

Colour: Peach drank

Nose: Orange sherbet, wood chips, lime, strawberry

Strong orange on the nose, and there's a good amount of sweetness here. Don't rule out the American Oak though; it's still present.

Kinda like having a pseudo healthy sundae filled with fruit. Like we're fooling ourselves. "This is healthy, it has fruit, right?" Tisk tisk...

Moving on...

Taste: Plum, anise, apple, caramel, raspberry, mango, bug spray

At the end there's that flavour when you breathe in bug spray by mistake, and then have a weird rash for a summer. Well, without the rash.

This is quite fruity and has just a little bit of spice to it. Different levels of sweetness and acidity, quite nice.

Finish: Orange, chocolate, anise, butterscotch, basil, smoke

Finishes with more of the same, mixtures of orange, and yet there's a random dash of smoke there that seems almost out of place, if not for the earlier wood notes.

Also it's very sweet. Like, my teeth may fall out with happiness sweet, which for me I love, but for you... well, you have that new summer dress you want to fit in, and the beach is getting nicer, so you may want to back off.

Conclusion: This is better than the 10 year, better than the Nectar, and a decent port finished whisky. I've had better, sure, but this is nice to sip on, and have with a dessert. The bug spray and unfortunately almost one note nose take away from it, and I don't know if the port was too strong or too weak. Hard to tell.

None the less, so far, of the finished Glenmorangies, this is the one to go for.

81/100




It was quite surprising to taste it. Took awhile for it to pop out, though I can definitely say that's what I tasted.

Not a bonus.



Thanks to /u/devoz, /u/lasidar, /u/scotch_fanatic, and /u/allumina for samples. And me for buying others.

Me is pretty great. Can't name things though.

So based on some of my last multi-reviews, I can't call this a vertical. It's vertical-ish, but not really a vertical. Also isn't a horizontal either.

Diagnonal sounds dumb. No, this is a Cluster Fuck (patent pending) of reviews.

What's a Cluster Fuck? Well that's when a disorganized group of people have sexual relations with one another in a chaotic fashion. So without proper organization or a project manager.

So remember: Always bring a Project Manager to your orgies.

Glad we all learned something. And that's about all for today.

Wait.

I was doing something, wasn't I?

Oh, yeah, Scotch reviews. Sometimes I get ahead of myself (see Cluster Fuck above).

Glenmorangie brings out a lot of different whiskies, finished, no finished, in odd casks, and what not. The company's first records are from a farm in 1703. Now they have 6% of the single malt whisky stock.

That's a lot. Let's see how these 6 disorganized whiskies (disorganized in that they don't follow a pattern to be together, not in how they are made) measure up.

Region: Highland

I showed up to school the year after our Drama club started off. In some ways, I was able to be there for it's second Golden Age, seeing two major festivals hosted, multiple awards (of which I won some), and great times had by all.

Before I showed up, they had fought tooth and nail, emptying out pockets of change and collecting any money to have simple sets, all while seeing massive musicals win ahead of them.

Years after I left, the drama club swelled, and my old High School became an Art School. Yet there weren't any awards, festivals, or anything of the like.

What does this have to do with whisky? Well, in 2014, Glenmorangie brought out the Ealanta, an amazing whisky that later was named whisky of the year.

The next year they brought out Glenmorangie Companta. Finished in 60% Burgundy wine casks from Clos de Tart and 40% Rh?ne Valley casks that previously held Rasteau, this could be amazing, yet it's in the shadow of Ealanta, which I loved (like many others).

Yet just because we may have missed the first great age doesn't mean this one will be bad. It could be bad, of course, regardless of how good or bad the previous year was.

So let's see how this tastes, independent of the past.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 46%

Nose: Strawberry jam, peach, caramel, ginger, allspice, orange

Reminds me of a marmalade/jam mixture, yet there's these great spices that are so prolific this time of year.

And yes, my Uggs look great with my Yoga pants, thank you very much.

Taste: Pepper, cherry, ginger, lemon, cherry, pepper, candied yam

Bit hot at first, yet it works with the cherry, and... I wrote cherry twice, didn't I? Well there's a lot of cherry.

It's not like a sherry bomb. Close, however it's lighter and the earth is more developed.

Finish: Orange, cocoa, lime, gingersnaps, oak, sulfur

Very poor finish overall, sadly. Where as the taste and nose had interesting, if simple portions, the finish is brief and this sulphuric element seems to pull it down, like crabs in a bucket, or lacking a great writer.

If I may drop my humble-brag.

Conclusion: So this has an interesting, nice autumn nose, followed by a unique, well balanced taste, and then a let down of a finish.

Which is too bad, really. I'm not going to give this too low of marks. Yeah, the finish isn't great. It's not bad either. I think it could have been better at 48%.

As for comparing it to the Ealanta? Not really fair, but it's going to happen. I'd say that maybe next time they should avoid releasing a NAS whisky, regardless of finish, a year after releasing a 19 year whisky.

81/100

Blocking out part of understanding is an important step in admitting you're full of shit.

Oh, I don't know you well; however I do know that we, all of us, are full of shit at some point.

So after reviewing Glenmorangie 18 as part of a mystery dram many years ago, I swapped for another sample.

Why? Because I'm a godamn masochist.

Also I wanted to try it again. I was older, more set in my ways, and with less hair on my head. I should be able to try it.

Granted I didn't know that it was aged for 15 years in ex-bourbon casks and 3 years in ex-oloroso casks. That didn't matter.

I had to try it again. For my own sake.

So, let's see how this dram tasted when I knew what it was, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 43%

Colour: 10YR 6/8

Nose: Mango, lemon, caramel, ginger, vanilla, earth, moss

Very odd mixture here. Part of it is really sweet, with lots of vanilla and caramels. The other part is very earthy.

Very sweet nose. Not surprising from Glenmorangie, which I find sweet by itself.

Taste: Burn/chili, butterscotch, lemon, cashew, floral, clay, oily

The initial burn is pretty rough. Rough like driving down a winter road in skivvies on a motorbike in Maine.

That's pretty rough. But great views, at least.

Once the burn subsides, there's a lot of floral and earth/oily elements. Takes some getting used to, and as someone who isn't the biggest fan of too much earth, it's kinda rough still.

Finish: Gravel, orange, floral, chilis, ginger, basil

Gravel is not something I like to drink. Let's be clear there. I used to make cement, and I know the taste of dirt though, and this is gravel like.

The other flavours are nice and blend well. Yet the gravel remains, haunting me.

Conclusion: I think I complain a little too much about this dram. Let's take a step back.

It's interesting, has some different flavours, develops well, and isn't as overly sweet as it could be.

That said, there's too much burn and too much earth. Plain and simple, some aspects just don't work, so while I rate it well enough, I'd say there's better drams for your dollar.

79/100

This is my Ferrari. I love driving around in it.

But what I'm really proud of? All these whisky reviews. They made me sharp. Who I am.

And that's what I'd say if I too was a douche canoe.

Unfortunately I don't have the money of said female cleaning agent water transportation tool. Otherwise I could have purchased a bottle of Glenmorangie Signet.

Perhaps that's for the best though. I'd have given into buying this Scotch made with more chocolate malt than normal, that some of it was aged in virgin oak, and I'd assume that was amazing.

Wait... I am sounding like a different vaginal boat now...

Okay, so if I had the money, maybe I'd give into this expensive NAS whisky. Maybe I wouldn't. That doesn't really matter.

What matters is how it tastes. And we should see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: 5YR 3/8

Nose: Currant, pear, rhubarb tarts, rubber, allspice, plums, peat moss

A lot of red fruits in this. And rubber. Which is kinda odd.

Wait, is my Ferrari on fire?

Oh well, it was made of rubber.

Anyway, there's a lot of dark fruits that change as time goes on. The earth of the peat moss is well placed here too.

Taste: Papaya, mint, ginger, apple, strawberry, cocoa

If I was a betting man, I'd say this had sherry influence. And that's why I don't bet.

Granted my Ferrari's on fire, so you may want to disregard that.

It's all a little bit jumbled. Kinda like a test for a dessert that didn't quite work.

Finish: Smoke, mushroom, ginger, pepper, rubber

Smoke is nice, yet it turns to rubber, and I'd make the car joke again, but no one believes that a guy who likes whisky this much has money for an expensive car he can only drive 6 months of the year.

It's simple at the end. I don't hate it, but I wanted something more.

Conclusion: Good, if not too complex nose, jumbled taste, and a finish that smells like a rubber fire.

I said a RUBBER FIRE!

I was hoping for something interesting, and I got that. Is interesting always good? Not really. I think they can do better.

77/100



Reviewing what you wrote before is interesting. Maybe you made too many dick jokes. Or maybe you accused everyone of being full of shit.

Or maybe something could have been better.

When I first reviewed Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban, I was very happy. Why? Because I wasn't in a local shooting that just happened a few blocks away from me.

That's a big deal here in Canada, trust me.

Also I was on one of my wedding anniversaries. I had amazing Chinese food (which is rare to find), I was going to get lucky in a different bed, and I wasn't being shot at.

Let me be clear: I like NOT being shot at.

So perhaps I was hasty in trying this port finished whisky. And given this night there isn't a shooting, and I'm just relaxing, let's see how I really feel about this dram.

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: 2.5R 3/8

Nose: Plum, cocoa, floral, peach, grapefruit, light caramel

There's this deep, floral and plum filled caramel dram. It's really deep, and tasty.

Like that one girl you could never hit the end of. Or the start (deep, I know).

Taste: Plum, caramel, ginger, butter, cereal, cinnamon, birch

So.. yeah, I'm one of the bitter brothers, let's get that out of the way.

And I like this dram. A lot. It's dark fruit, deep flavour, and nice cereal meld really nicely.

However... there's this birch sap flavour

Finish: Cinnamon, alcohol, chocolate, floral, nectarine, honey

Bit harsh on the end. Don't get me wrong; I like the other notes. Chocolate? I'm fat, of course. Honey? I'm the grandson of a beekeeper, I grew up on it. But raw alcohol? Not helping.

Doesn't really clear either. Too bad. Maybe it needed more time in the pipes?

Conclusion: Alright, I've come to two conclusions: I rated this too low the first time, and I thought of it too highly this whole time.

How does that work? Well you review over 500 whiskies and remember everything just right. Jerk.

So, it is quite good. They've pulled together an amazing nose and a great taste in 12 short years. That's pretty amazing.

And the finish is almost there. There's issues, sure, but I'd still go for this rather than other Glenmorangie's, and on an even more positive note, I think Glenmorangie has balanced port flavours really well in comparison to other drams I've had.

82/100

/u/zillah1985 has his search for Pappy 23. I... didn't.

Don't get me wrong; I want to try it at some point. And I loved his post. However it's not the toy I was looking for.

You see, most kids enjoy getting that one toy, and put it away. And those kids are healthy, live great lives, and enjoy themselves. They move on.

I didn't. I needed to collect things. Have full sets. I was like a mule with a complete kitchen set. No idea what to do with it yet proud to have it.

I played a lot of Magic: The Gathering. Trading was my favourite part.

Then I moved onto whisky. Started with some of the easy stuff. You know, like trying the simple ones, like those from Glenmorangie. Not simple in complexity; more so just out there. You could find the Original and the three finished ones anywhere.

Except I couldn't find Glenmorangie Lasanta. And that's... frustrating to me. I'm not OCD; that infers I can't leave my house. Obsessed? Nope, haven't skinned someone's face and worn it on my crouch while calling out to Freya to bless the crops.

No, I'm driven. I can't really drop things I collect. And it typically works. In this case it took a few years, and here we are. I can now try this dram, which has been finished in both oloroso and PX sherry casks for 2 years.

Let's see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: 2.5YR 4/8

Nose: Raspberry, mango, banana, coffee, cassia buds, juniper, watermelon

Big fruit tastes, and something that I haven't smelled in awhile. Like a Mox Diamond.

Well, I haven't smelled that because I stopped playing Magic, it doesn't smell, and I lost 3 of them, sadly.

No, more of the coffee and banana notes. Really tasty. And it pairs well with an almost gin smell. Love the nose on this.

Taste: Coffee, rhubarb, strawberry, anise, oily, banana

Holy shit I miss coffee. I didn't collect coffee (that's a segue). No, I just enjoyed it when it was well made. And now I can't have it.

That said, while I liked tasting it again without that burnt shit taste from decaf, the coffee doesn't really fit here. It's not balancing it out like it should, and it's showing up like a Yugi-oh player to a Magic tournament.

Finish: Earth, coffee, chilis, rosemary, green melon

And here it comes again. The earth at the end, the unbalanced notes feel like a shitty rare in a pack of decent uncommons.

Or rather: I wish it met the nose.

Conclusion: I'm happy to have had this. And I'd even consider drinking it again. Is it amazing? No. However it's tasty. The finish ends not so great, which sucks, but that's not something to worry about.

I finished part of my collection. And that makes me feel happy. I like coffee too, so I'm adding some bonus points. Because I'm mad with power.

81/100

I have something to admit: I have trouble in the Southern US.

Why? Well I was brought up in Canada, where we're taught the South is really racist and poor and live in warm places.

I've since met a lot of great people from the South. That said, it's hard to move away from that believe brought on by popular culture.

So when I hear about Artisan Casks from the Ozarks of Missouri, I have to say I'm not 100% sold. I'm barely 50% sold.

And that's really stupid. Because the wood isn't affected by the past. And the USA has some pretty cool wood producing, and warm weather gives us cool wood.

Enter Glenmorangie Astar, the second in Glenmorangie's series of Artisan cask series. Aged in wood made from wood from the Ozark mountains.

What does that mean though? Well first off I'm a jingoist and I need to work on that.

Also it means that this is... ex-bourbon casks? Or maybe virgin casks? I don't really know. Is it American oak? A variant of it?

Who knows. What I do know is it's cask strength. And interesting. So I'll put aside my pathetic fallacies that I know are false, and see how it tastes.

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 57.1%

Colour: 2.5Y 8/6

Nose: Lemon, grapefruit, honey, ginger, butter, cashew, caramel muffin, chocolate rum sauce

This.. this is really, really complex. Super complex. If I smelled this while walking into a bakery, I'd buy too much and gain more weight.

Taste: Sugar cookies, lemon curd, peanut oil, pepper, herbal, pineapple

I recently tried Tim Horton's filled cookies. The ones I thought I'd like? Hated. The one I wasn't sure about? A lemon sugar cookie filled with raspberry goo. Tasty, tasty good.

This reminds me of that cookie, that I loved so much.

Finish: Ginger, peanut brittle, Sprite, oak, moss, anise, cereal, vanilla, pine, cardamon

Holy shit, a finish that doesn't let me down!

Seriously though, this is more of the same, yet there's a pine note that I assume is from virgin oak. I don't love it, but that's a minor point.

Conclusion: This is a really well done dram. I've had a few Glenmorangie's at cask strength, and this did not disappoint. At all. This is really, really tasty. It has unique notes throughout.

Basically I didn't rate this higher because it didn't end up giving me distinct memories. And 1 point off for the harsh pine. However I'd think twice before judging the South again OR Artisan casks, as this was worth it.

84/100



You see, most kids enjoy getting that one toy, and put it away. And those kids are healthy, live great lives, and enjoy themselves. They move on.
I didn't. I needed to collect things. Have full sets. I was like a mule with a complete kitchen set. No idea what to do with it yet proud to have it.
I played a lot of Magic: The Gathering. Trading was my favourite part.
Then I moved onto whisky. Started with some of the easy stuff. You know, like trying the simple ones, like those from Glenmorangie. Not simple in complexity; more so just out there. You could find the Original and the three finished ones anywhere.

It is quite interesting how a lot of us (cough geeks n nerds cough) have transferred one collection obsession from the past to a new alcoholic one in the future.  

Thanks for the reviews. I haven't had Glenmo in awhile. I might try it again sometime. 



