No camera on hand, forgive the stock photo.

Colour: Gold (D'or en francais)

Nose: Honey, vanilla, malt, flowers, wood, sweet citrus. 

Palate: Sweet, light fruit, spice, wine, sherry (or is that the sauterne cask there?).  A lot like the Glenmorangie 10.

Finish: Sweet, airy, winey, turns to a sweet alcohol and honey quality that faintly lingers for a decent amount of time.

Shares a lot with the 10 but is a more interesting dram with an excellent nose and nicer finish.  The extra 6 % abv content over the 10 seems to suit it well.  I assume it's the sauterne cask that is giving it a rich sweetness that almost reminds me of the sherry quality of the Macallan CS or 12 year old in an oblique way (both of which I WAY prefer over this).  

My understanding is that it's the 10 with 2 extra years spent in a sauterne cask, perhaps someone can confirm.

NCF with an ABV of 46%

Price not factored into review.

83/100



I love strong flavors of vanilla, given that I wanted to really love this. The sauternes cask finish gives this whisky a dessert profile and is surprisingly non-chill filtered.

43% ABV

Paid: N/A mini collection

Region: Highland

Color: Wheat Gold

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn 

Nose: Butterscotch and coconut with dollops of vanilla.  Honey is present throughout.

Taste: The nose follows through to the palate with velvety butterscotch, honey and vanilla.  

Finish: Ginger now comes out and overpowers the sweet desert like profile for me. Too spicey for what this is supposed to be. 

Overall: The nose and taste of this is great, but the finish does as 180 for me and leaves much to be desired. 

Score: 72/100



I?m not sure if this is for everyone. Very light and interesting flavors (I assume it?s due to being finished in sauternes casks), very different malts I?ve tried before and a big diversion from my usual peaty monsters. That said, I like it a lot and would be very happy to try a malt with similar flavours.. Any suggestions?

EDIT: I have made a mistake. Looking through previous reviews I noticed that most are for a 12 year Nectar D'Or.. Where as this is a 15 year (I also supplied a wrong picture). Same ABV, I can't find reference to the 15 year on their website, but it definitely exists: http://www.amazon.co.uk/Glenmorangie-Nectar-years-Sauternes-Cask/dp/B009GJR15I/ref=sr_1_6?ie=UTF8&qid=1371369937&sr=8-6&keywords=glenmorangie

Sorry for any confusion






Glenmorangie Nectar D'Or, 46% ABV

Thanks to the18thelement for the sample!

Nose: Sweet and malty. Lemon cheesecake and sultanas. Vanilla cream with cinnamon sugar. Charred oak and spent matches.

Taste: Smooth but thin - yeasty bread with butter and strawberry jam. Also getting some melons. Becomes tangy and tannic - dry oak, kumquats, kiwi, cherries and grapefruit. 

Finish: Citrusy and peppery. Basil and thyme. Faint floral notes. Medium, slightly bitter and dry.

This stuff is pretty good! It's a very fresh and crisp whisky that's not too sweet. I like this more than the Quinta Ruban and Lasanta. I haven't had the Original for a while so I cannot compare it with that one.

Great summer dram but if you can find the Astar, buy that instead, it's worth the extra cash.

81/100

Review #69, thanks for reading.



This was a really easy drink for me.  Smooth, bittersweet and a nice finish, half the bottle was gone before I knew it.

I can definitely agree with the citrus and pepper, the tangy spicy flavours.  It sure does smell sweet.

It didn't have much replay value though, not enough depth for my liking.  Refreshing, but "thin" as you say.

Perhaps I am biased as I lean towards peaty flavours, even so it was a worthwhile step out of my comfort zone.



Glenmorangie Nectar D'or 

(12y, 46%, 10y bourbon cask matured + 2y Sauternes cask finish)

?

Out of curiosity, since LVMH owns both Glenmorangie and the only Sauternes vineyard in the Premier Cru Sup?rieur class in Ch?teau d?Yquem, I wonder if it's their Sauternes casks that are now being used.

?

Nose: Sprite, lemon candies, orange, green grapes, floral notes

Taste: Honey, lemon, nutmeg, ginger, cinnamon, oak, (oddly) a wisp of smoke 

Finish: Medium-short. Dry white wine, spice warmth, white chocolate, faint vegetal notes, Sprite again

?

I have to say, I enjoyed this one? way more than I thought I would going into it. Don?t get me wrong, it?s not an extremely complex, challenging, ?whatever? bomb, mind-altering or world-changing dram. BUT it is very enjoyable in and of itself. It is a light, readily approachable, easy drinking, sweet dessert scotch with some complexity to it, great for hot summer days. Felt a little like I was drinking a Sprite with baking spices in it (probably better than it sounds). In any case, I?m pleasantly surprised.

?

82/100



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  I am still on the fence about Glenmorangie.  the score so far?:  Original 10 is weak but okay, Lasanta (which I never put down for review) is way too unbalanced with the sherry,  Quinta Ruban I found delicious and now its time for my little sample bottle of Glenmorangie Nectar D?or 92 proof

not awesome. not terrible tad unbalanced.  it has that distinct Glenmorangie light malt to it that they get from those tall stills.  I enjoyed it for the most part but I'm glad I got a sample of it instead of buying a full bottle. I believe this is the first Sauternes finished cask I've had and it is interesting at least. 

79/100



I was given a bottle of this for my birthday because it was supposedly my late Grandfather's favourite, but I think this was his favourite brand, not his favourite expression. 

Still a decent score if you didn't like Glenmorangie in general, thanks for the review!



So this is the 3rd of the 3 of Glenmorangie's extra matured range. This stuff is finished in Sauternes casks. This is a kind of white wine I am told (Not much of white wine person, it's for girls). 

Nose: A bit weak. Sultanas. Marzipan. Grapefruit juice (the stuff with all the chemicals, not fresh squeezed). Caramel. Herbal honey. Buttered toast. Orange sponge cake. Gooseberries (I hate gooseberries!). Roast butternut in a white wine cream sauce. 

Palate: Wood, sweet gooey wood. Maple syrup on fresh waffles. Toffee. Sweet & sour sauce. Dessert wine. 

Finish: Long. Sweet and woody. Ends off on a dry winey note. 

Rating: 7.5/10

This was a nice sweet dram, but I found the notes on the nose really hard to look for and the finish a little flat. It was nice on the palate though. Nothing too special here IMO. 



(Not much of white wine person, it's for girls)

wat.jpg



Nothing too special here IMO.

I'm pretty sure that's emblazoned on the Glenmo Tartan in Gaelic.



Quinta Ruban was the best of the bunch but not outstanding in the Scotch department as a whole.

Agreed on both accounts. The Signet was quite good, but not $200 good. I haven't had a chance to try the $100 seasonal releases, though I hear the older ones were great.


Glenmorangie Nectar D?Or

Nectar D?Or is a 12 year old Scotch finished in Sauternes (a sweet white dessert wine) casks.

46% abv. 

Nose - Very sweet, with a lot of golden fruit. Honey, simple syrup, pineapple, golden apples, vanilla frosting, with some mild black pepper and clove notes in the background. Seems almost too sweet.

Palate - Quite sweet, as the nose suggested. I get mostly the same stuff here I did on the nose - honey, pineapple, golden apples, lots of vanilla, with a bit of ginger and black pepper in the background. Thick, somewhat oily texture.

FInish - Vanilla and golden apple notes amplify and get sweeter, becoming somewhat tart, before eventually becoming a bit gingery and peppery. The ginger and pepper notes are really needed here to balance out the sweetness.

This might be the sweetest whisky I?ve had. That said, it has just enough ginger and black pepper to it so that it?s not quite overwhelmingly sweet, but I wouldn?t call this one balanced. It is enjoyable in as much as anything that?s too sweet without being overwhelmingly so is, I think.

86/100




the oloroso doesn't make this better. It seems younger than the 10 and is kind of mangled together. I was hoping the community's disdain for this was misplaced but sadly it's not well put together. 

next as we ascend the /r/scotch ladder of glenmo 12s, is the Nectar D'Or, finished in sauternes barriques from France. I've only had one sauternes finish before, from Arran - a distillery I love - and it was the only letdown I've had so far from them. hopefully that isn't indicative of how I'll enjoy this.

Appearance: more orange than the lasanta but lighter too. thin legs. 

Nose: honey, caramel, sugar. Another very sweet dram from the nose of it. Less fruit. Smells quite a bit like the original

Taste: now that's a bit different?. There's a lot of caramel, vanilla, and honey in there, and it is quite sweet, but it melds with the spirit a lot better than the sherry did. There's a citrusy bite to it too. lots of oak. Tropical fruit like mango and pineapple. there's a spiciness that i just can't place but it's on the tip of my tongue.. literally. very creamy too. 

Finish: long, buttery and sweet.

Score: 84/100

this is a lot better than the Lasanta and I'd actually consider buying a bottle of it. The sauternes add a lot to the spirit here and they just work well together.  Glad the full series isn't a disappointment. 

and finally we get to the Quinta Ruban, the /r/scotch darling of the lineup. I do love a good port finish, which is why I'm starting to work on a full series of port finished whiskies right now. Looking forward to adding this to the mix once I'm ready to post that series.  the leve on this mini was down to the shoulder of the bottle which makes me worry it wasn't air tight. guess i'll see. 

Appearance: dark peachy red.generous legs. Looks promising

Nose: definitely a port finish! Dark red fruits, peppery spice, rich sugary nose. 

Taste: lots of port influence for sure - chocolate, berries, cherries. Less of the tobacco note I look for in port finishes but still present. Much more creamy than the rest of the lineup. Heavy tannic oak and very winey. has a rubbery note too. This one also melds well with the spirit.

Finish: fruity and long

Score: 87/100

definitely my favourite of the bunch, but I am biased towards port. It just tastes a lot more balanced and more mature than the others. If this was more affordable in Ontario I'd buy a bottle.  A nice finish to the series. 



I personally don't care for Glenmorangie, as it simply is too light for my taste. Nice reviews, though (as always).

I hear that the new Lasanta, which is only 43% abv, is much better than the old version. We'll see in the Community Review!



It's back to Basics time!... 

Well, not really, it's back to next level time? Whatever, it's time to review one of the staples, all so that I can feel like I should be writing these reviews, not just.. I don't know, some guy who drinks quite a bit.

This week we have Glenmorangie Nectar D'Or. This is the usual Glenmorangie juice of 10 years with yet another twist, it's put into Sauternes casks for 2 additional years. I'm quite a fan of sweeter wines, however I remember not being the biggest fan of this one when I had it before.

But enough about the past, what is Sauternes wine, and why do whisky drinkers care? Well, it's a French sweet wine made in the Sauternais region in Bordeaux, France. It's affect by noble rot, a fungus that takes away the water from the grape and leaves it sweeter.  Also Sauternes wine can be very, very expensive.

Be careful when looking for authentic Sauternes wines: in the US, a wine can be labeled as sauterne with a lower case s and no s at the end, and it's just a generic sweet wine.

But enough of parroting Wikipedia, let's see how I review a Highland this time (It's always so high)

Price: $89.30 (CAD)

Region: Highland

Abv: 46%

Colour: Light gold

Nose: Plum, strawberry, pear, floral, nutmeg, mango, corn syrup

Very fruity, with more of the traditional Glenmorangie smell coming forward instead of the Sauternes. Eventually it opens up, after letting it breathe, and there's some nutmeg and mango. Then a horrid Corn Syrup flavour that is very off putting.

Gee, who would think mixing Glenmorangie, a typically sweeter whisky, would end up with a nose of something overly sweet?^

Taste: Honey, apple, ginger, lemon, basil, hot sauce, metallic

Again, after letting this breath, there's some elements of dry flavours, however the Glenmorangie Honey/Apple combo with vegetal notes is still there in force. It's a little different than the 10 year, but for something at the price plus, that hot sauce metal flavour shouldn't be there.

Finish: Vegetal, cinnamon, pepper, cream, light honey, dirty carrot

Again, this is just like the 10 year, yet finally we get some of the Sauternes elements popping up and changing the dram. It's not bad, it's just nothing special.

Like every one of us.

Conclusion: Listen up maggots. This is not special, this is not a unique snowflake.

Woah, let's pare back on the angry quotes... that came off bad.

Alright, I've been sarcastic (see the carrots above), I've been pretty negative, and it's not THAT bad. I mean, it's an experiment, and a good entrance into what a finish can do. 

It has some subtle notes of the Sauternes, it was worth a try. Should they mix a sweet whisky with a sweet wine finish? No, because it's muddled. Glenmorangie needs to try a different, less sweet finish, like, oh, I don't know, a red wine finish. That should be better.

Either that or put it in the Sauternes for longer. It's a subtle finish, it needs that extra time to change from the earthy, sweeter Glenmorangie finish.

77/100




The Nectar D'Or is the first single malt I ever drank, and it was love at first sip.

Obviously I may have a bias, but ever since then, with all the different Scotches I've tried, I still greatly enjoy this whisky. I think it's pleasantly sweet and different; I don't see that as a negative like you. It's a nice way to splash up the whisky rotation, I think.
