Aged in Oloroso, finished in PX

ABV: 43%

Age: 12 years

Price: $48

Distiller: GlenDronach 

Eye: 
Deep reddish caramel

Nose:
Sherry lolls out of the glass along with some sweet vermouth, ripe juicy dark fruit, cocoa and honey. Light notes of sweet malt dance with an earthy avocado like undertone and a touch of tobacco. Not wildly complex, but pleasant nonetheless.

Palate:
Moving out first is some sweet ripe red fruit like strawberry, cherry and raspberry. A sherry that is more subtle than on the nose mixes with some malt, a hint of wood, a bit of citrus, leather and sweet tobacco. The palate is a bit more complex than the nose, but not wildly so and again it doesn?t really matter because what?s there is very nice.

Finish:
Malt and tobacco and oak and ambiguous sweetness oh my! Long and tasty it?s not a bad way to end a dram.

Balance, Body & Feel:
Nicely balanced with a full body and a luxurious syrupy texture.

Score:
86/100

Overall:
It?s 12 years of tastiness all rolled up and dumped into a 750ml glass bottle. It?s a really nice, accessible and tasty single malt that just about anyone could easily grab off the shelf and enjoy. There?s enough complexity for ?seasoned pros? to enjoy while not so overly complex that less experienced drinkers would feel lost or overwhelmed. It?s a simple, straightforward and tasty whisky that I?m enjoying every single second of.



I've generally not been too impressed by Glendronach, but usually its because I feel they are overdone or too much.  I thought I should try some more standard releases to be sure, since so far I've mostly had older or rarer bottlings.  This is their standard 12 year old.  Bottled at 43% ABV.

?

Nose:  Fruit cake.  Honey, toffee, almonds, dried fruit.  Very sherried.

Palate:  Medium weight.  Sweet with dried fruit right away.  Plums, pears, apple, and raisins.

Finish:  Medium length finish.  Surprising amount of spice.  A bit of sea salt.  Oak and raisins and black pepper.

Score: 84/100

?

I really like this quite a bit.  And its a good value as well.  Its sweet and sherried, but not overly so.  I'd take a bottle of this over the 15 year revival any day (and I know I'm in the minority on that one).

/u/review_bot 'Glendronach'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Glendronach:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



One does not simply walk into r/Scotch and announce you don't like the 15 revival. 

Joking aside, good review. While I adore the 15, the 12 is a great dram (tied with the Bunnahabhain 12 as my favorite 12 YO). I wonder if you would have liked the 12 from back in 2014 and earlier when it was predominantly (or entirely) old-make GlenDronach. While it's still delicious, it has changed dramatically in the last 2 1/2 years (coal ash note is gone, no leather notes, brighter red fruit notes). Have you tried the 18 (which to me has more in common with the 12 than the 15, despite being roughly the same actual age as the 15)?

Out of curiosity, what are your go-to whiskys?



No, I'm taking about the same core range 12 they introduced in 2009 when BenRiach purchased the distillery. At that point it became a mix of PX/Oloroso ex-sherry cask with no ex-bourbon influence. Until roughly July 2014, they had no applicable whisky they could use in the 12 since the distillery was mothballed from 96-2001. This effectively meant that while labeled a 12, it was in fact an 18 YO whisky (and tasted as such). 

Even after they started filtering in 02 and later whisky into the vatting, it still was predominantly older stuff in the bottle. However it has changed dramatically as post 02 whisky has come to dominate, along with 03+ juice (when they were forced to switch to indirect steam versus direct coal fired stills) which has further changed the character of GlenDro juice (IMHO).

http://wordsofwhisky.com/glendronach-is-a-lot-older-than-the-label-says/



Glendronach 12 Year Old

(43%, matured in PX and oloroso sherry casks, NCF, natural color, bottled 2015/09/15, ~$66 CAD)

?

Nose: Red fruits, orange peel, leather, oak, raisins, vanilla, cocoa

Taste: Vanilla creamer, orange, caramel, raisins, cinnamon, stewed apples, hint of cloves

Finish: Oak, pepper, spices, mild tobacco

?

A lot of classical sherry elements on the nose. Light, young flavours throughout... equal parts spicy and sweet, with some bitter woodiness bringing up the back end. Mouthfeel is on the thinner side. Surprisingly more vanilla and oak influence than I can recall from previous bottlings. 

Still a great starter sherry for anyone looking for a intro dram to the category. Mild, inoffensive, reasonably balanced with minor complexity... in short, pleasant. Sadly, I may be over this one personally though as it just didn't do it for me this time.

?

80/100



True, but for the price point its still easily one of the best entry level sherried Highlanders on the market today.

Also I've never experienced a tobacco finish on this one, I better pull it back out on the weekend and see if I can get that!



Glendronach 12 Original

Aged 12 years, 43%ABV, Matured in PX and Oloroso Casks,  NCA, NCF

Nose:  Stewed plums. Brandy. Brasil nuts. Mahogany. Light paprika. Nutmeg. Red fruits. Bit of floral with time. 

Palate: Dry wood. Raisins. Prunes. Macadamia. Burned pecans. 

Finish: Medium. Espresso. Bitter tannins. Bit of sweet figgy notes. 

Rating: Wishy-washy

Conclusions: Glendronach isn't really my style, but always willing to try new whiskies. Their range is very good in terms of quality. The 12 was quite sweet due to the PX influence, felt a tad unbalanced. The 15 and 18 were quite similar (in more than just profile ;) ) ,classic sherried whisky, dry, fruity, though I found the 18 a good deal spicier. The 21 was nice,  sweet but better balanced than the 12 by far. As for the single cask, I reviewed a similar cask a little while ago,  same opinion,  too sweet for my tastes but very good quality. 

Now the Benriachs were more my thing. Heart of Speyside was pretty much new make with just enough barrel time to change colour. Leaving it at that. The 16 was fantastic. Loads of tropical fruit, floral notes and honey. Everything you'd expect from an ex bourbon speysider. 

And the 35. Well. It was fantastic. Never worth the price asked, but fantastic. Bursting with all sorts of herbal and fruity notes which is surprising given its age, and so we'll balanced. Really made the night for all of us. 



This is apprently a 90's bottling of Glendronach, before it was mothballed, one of the very last distilleries to use coal fired stills. This was matured in a mixture of refill bourbon and sherry casks.

Nose: Filthy sherry, raspberry punch, floor polish, French toast, cinnamon, the candy flavor. Honey. Maple syrup. 

Palate: More sherry, gunpowder, grit, bit of candied lemon and vanilla.

Finish: Short, bitter, raisins and dry sherry .

Rating: 8/10

This was a great malt for its day. I'm really happy that I got to try some, the marriage of bourbon and sherry was really good.



Glendronach 12

Glendronach is a Highland distillery, owned by Billy Walker?s group, along with Glenglassaugh and Benriach. Since his takeover, they?ve been arguably the best producer of sherried Scotch running. This is their entry level version, matured in PX and Oloroso Sherry casks. 43% abv. Thanks again to /u/dmsn7d for the sample.

Nose - Thick, rich, sherried nose. Seems more mature than the age statement indicates, though I don?t think this is padded with extra aged whisky they way the 15 year is (but who really knows). Raisins, Mexican chocolate, vanilla, clove, gingerbread cookies, tart cherries, black pepper, allspice.

Taste - Still rich and sherried - a bit more bitter/earthy than the nose made me think. Coffee, fruitcake, raisins, Mexican chocolate, cherries, with peppery spice coming in as it develops. Medium-light body, a bit watery.

Finish - Coffee, black pepper, clove, cherry, Mexican chocolate. Fairly short. The coffee note doesn?t quite sit well with the others here.

This is a good example of an entry-level sherried Scotch, that doesn?t take any shortcuts. Nicely full flavored, with big sherry notes, though the finish is a bit short and the coffee note I get isn?t completely welcome, but it?s still solid.

85/100



I think I know the chart you mean.

It also explains why a Glendro 12 I bought in early 2013 I liked quite a bit more.



I agree with that, but for me that's not really a bad thing. At the moment it seems it's all about the "in-your-face" cask finisheses while the more suble scotches are at the background. If I compare the glendronach core range i've tased (12, 15, 18, 21) and the glenfarclas core range (12, 15, 18, 21, 25) i see two equally good ranges but with a different view on scotch. The Glendro's are in your face sherry while the glenfarclas' are more balanced.

I like both and have a glendronach 12 and glenfarclas 18 as a "daily" sherry dram. Sometimes i'm more in the mood for raisins and sometimes for something more suble.



I was in Scotland back in June and picked up a bunch of minis. Two of those were Glendronach's that I haven't seen in Canada before, and I have a bottle of the 12 at home that I hadn't yet reviewed? so here's a Glendronach 3-way. 

First up is the Glendronach 8 Hielan

Glendronach 12 The Original - 43% ABV

Appearance: deep copper orange. 

Nose: dark fruit, berries, tons of dark sherry, prunes, raisins. Quite sweet and fruity. 

Palate: tobacco, sherry,  red wine. Spicy, tons of red fruit, strawberry and other berries. Honey. sweet with lots of depth. More oak influence than the 8. 

Finish: long, rich, sweet, spicy. 

Score: 87/100

I like this a lot. Sweet but not overly sweet, more balanced. Will likely buy this again once it's gone. 

this is the second mini I bought in Scotland. Haven't had a peated Glendro before, and it takes on sherry well, so I'm excited to see what the spirit is like when peated. 

not a great representation of Glendronach's spirit.

Wouldn't this actually be a good representation of Glendro's spirit, considering the minimal cask influence? I'm just playing devil's advocate here, but maybe there is a reason they cover up their spirit with sherry?



For the price Glendronach 12 is really good. Would take it over most of the other OB 12yr options out there. 

Nice reviews as well. Enjoy seeing comparative reviews to see where things are rated relative to each other. 



I hoped to get to Glendronach and Glenfarclas today but didn't have time in the end. So I did the tour at Glendronach and went to The Whisky Shop Dufftown.

Glendronach is a super traditional distillery. I hadn't realised fully. Floor maltings until 1996, cast iron traditional mash tun, wooden washbacks and the stills were direct fired until 1996ish I think as well. Do correct me if I'm wrong.

Nice tour (I was the only one on it too) but I was driving, so had to take my 12yo away in a bottle.

However, I did bottle my own from the distillery cask. A 2004 Sherry Puncheon. Little on the expensive side at ?84 but hopefully worth it.

After that I went into Dufftown where the whisky shop has a big selection (600) and you can try just about anything! Again though, driving. So I bought the 18yo Smokehead at ?92 which is pretty good these days (I've seen it at ?130). I also asked if I could take a small sample of their exclusive Glenfarclas family cask, which they very kindly let me.

After all that I thought I might as well head back to Gordon & MacPhail and try even more whisky!

?

Glendronach 12 43%

Colour: Light Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Lovely restrained sherry, red apple, orange peel, toffee, raisin, light herbal and earthy notes.

Taste: Soft, fruity and spicy. Red apple, orange, ginger (a little harsh), fragrant oak, lightly floral.

Finish: Medium length. Earthy with oak.

Notes: Very almost on par with Macallan 12.

72/100

?


Special thanks out to /u/Theonetheycalljane, not only for the amazing name as a reference to Firefly or how much fun it is to say it out loud, but also for being great and doing a quick trade for a sample of the hard to find (for me) GlenDronach 12.

This one is matured in both PX and Oloroso casks for 12 years, non-chill filtered, not coloured, and probably had the grains massaged by Angels and Demons alike, given that pedigree.

New fun game I have: Giving my wife Sherried Whiskies (that's not a euphemism). She makes a face like other people eating lemons (she loves to eat lemons like oranges), and really doesn't like the spice on them. It's the little things that keeps a marriage going.

Price: $61.95 (CAD)

Region: Speyside

Abv: 43%

Colour: Rusty Brown

Nose: Strawberry, caramel, anise, cloves, treacle, cherry, little vanilla

Very sweet and spicy nose. There's a tiny, wee bit of vanilla hiding in the corner, crying, wondering why it's surrounded by Spanish spirits, that adds something nice to this.

I'm liking the amount of spice on the nose.

Taste: Caramel, cherry pie, vanilla milkshake, cinnamon, pepper

This is really, really sweet, and I enjoy really, overly sweet things. It's like drinking a pre-made Rusty Nail with a Sherrie whisky, if that's a thing. Let's make that a thing, why not.

Unique flavour combinations too, well made, no dithering about on this one.

Finish: Cinnamon, cloves, vanilla, sour Apple/pear, orange, little sulfur

And then the perfection comes to an end. Or at least not perfection, but a nice dram that was doing better than Aberlour 12 or Glenfiddich 15 comes to a stop. The end has a particle mouth feel, like when you finish a hot chocolate and it hasn't been all mixed. Unlike hot chocolate, the sulfur starts to pop up just a little bit at the end (my hot chocolate has sulfur throughout).

Also, can I say that sulfur always looks like it's spelled wrong? Out of all the things with a PH, you'd think sulfur would have it.

Conclusion: This is almost a lot better than other young Sherry matured whiskies I have had. There are some downsides though, and some room for improvement. 

First off, it keeps doing sweet and spicy over and over. And while I love those, I wish there was just a little acid (other than the overabundance at the end). I actually was missing the balance from Aberlour 12 after having this.

Second up, the particle flavour at the end. I even cleared my mouth out wondering if it was residue from past food, and nope, it came from the dram. No visible particles were seen, so it's probably just a personal thing.

I certainly would buy a bottle though, and I did enjoy this quite a bit. I have the 15 and 18 sitting on the side, waiting to be tested, so I look forward to seeing what more time does to the dram.

81/100

Scotch review #135, Speyside #43
