Glenfarclas 21 (Single Malt, Highland, 5cl, 43% ABV, 21 Years Old, Chill-filtered?, Uncoloured)

Price:  A full bottle runs $179.99; this 5cl miniature was an egregious $34.25.

Tasted:  A miniature bottle I purchased while passing through one of my favourite liquor stores in the nearest city.

Colour & Appearance:  Amber +1 ? Wide, slow-forming legs. There are bits of debris/sediment floating in the whisky. Can?t be from a cork, because it doesn?t have one.

Nose:  You can immediately smell the age of the whisky?complex oakiness, menthol, beautiful sherry integration, chocolate cake, cerise gla?e, almond liqueur, hint of mushroom and fungal quality similar to rhum agricole. The slightest peat influence, with time the malt starts to exert itself, jaggery goor, raw honey, definite smokiness reminiscent of smouldering hemlock. Mossy trees, damp forest air. With time it becomes nuttier, slightly fruity (a hint of a note of green apples, but it?s as though they?ve been sitting in an oak barrel for 21 years), and somewhat spicy. It?s best to let this open up a bit.

Palate:  Waxy mouthfeel, somewhat thick. Wonderful menthol/smoke hybrid, rhum agricole notes abound again. Maltiness exerts itself, barley sugar, autumn leaves (don?t ask why I?ve tasted these), sherry influence appears in the form of dates, hazelnuts, dark chocolate, cerise gla?e, black forest g?teau, overall nuttiness and dark flavours. This has some definite ex-bourbon cask influence in it with notes of vanilla crossed with honey alongside a burlap/plastic hybrid I?ve tasted in bourbon-matured whiskies before. With time it develops flavours of green apple, a subtle rye-ish spice melange, the honey recedes and some pleasant heat comes to the foreground. Those fungal rhum agricole notes lessen, but they?re still definitely there in the background. Oak doesn?t lessen, but the bitterness does. 

Finish:  Very dry (not in flavour, but in mouthfeel), oak, slight smokiness, bitter flavours, light roast coffee, crunchy nut toffee/bark (the candy), a sour note crossed with more bitterness, rhum agricole notes return (moss, jaggery goor, mushroom/fungality) and it all ends with semi-sweet chocolate and oak. With time a spice melange not only develops but comes to the fore of the finish. It?s got some heat, some fruit, and the oak flavour has remained while the bitter notes have receded. A wonderful transformation that is very much for the better. Coffee notes increase, dryness of the mouthfeel increases?it?s like you?ve swallowed a bit of ash, but somehow in a pleasant way. Still ends with chocolate and oak, but now there?s some pleasant spice?this must be what people mean when they describe ?Mexican chocolate?.

Packaging/Design:  Not a lot to say?it?s a miniature bottle. No information on the back (no back label whatsoever, actually), not even a barcode. There?s a bottling code beneath the screwcap, but it?s not all that helpful. I imagine it must?ve been packed in with a gift-set including a full-sized bottle at one point.

Conclusion: The only other Glenfarclas offering I?ve had was their 15 year old, and that was also from a miniature bottle. That one was all over the map: it had marine notes, sweet notes, salty notes, citric notes, and a bit of sherry influence as well. The 21 year old is much more well-rounded and balanced?every flavour seems to just line up correctly, every aspect is well integrated. My palate tends to veer towards oak influence; I enjoy the dryness and bitter aspects a long maturation will add to a spirit, but I miss some of the citrus and maritime notes from its younger sibling. This one is at a lower ABV (43% vs 46%) and is (possibly) chill-filtered to boot, so everything tells me I should enjoy it less? but I don?t. The positive qualities that the 15 year old offered will assert themselves the longer this malt sits in an open glass; the core Glenfarclas spirit/house style emerges. A bed of barley, mid-notes of subtle sweetness enrobed in a spice melange, all topped off with a sherry cherry. It?s quite remarkable, and quite delicious.
86/100.  

n.b. I took the photo for this review right when I opened the bottle, but I've since finished the sample. I'm not basing my review off of 10-15ml of the stuff, heh.

@Review_Bot add



Review 33: Glenfarclas 21yo

Color: Dark gold

Nose:  Nail polish, very minor peat smoke, stewed fruit; gooseberries, blueberries etc. Floral, almost light.

Palate: Rather sweet, honeyed oak, hazelnuts. Caramel and toffee with grassy, herbal undertones. 

Finish: Medium-long and drying. 

Conclusion: Rather underwhelming for a 21yo. I would have expected something heavier, with more sherry influence and more pizzaz.

82/100

Review #38: Glenfarclas 21

ABV: 43%

Color: dark amber

Nose (Initial pour): strong peat, oak, hints of vanilla and cream, sherry, honey

Nose (after 1 hour): weaker peat, oak, stronger vanilla, cream, fruitcakes, honey, sherry

Taste: spicy, vanilla, cream, fruitcakes (think Cragganmore 12), cream sherry, honey

Finish: a long smooth numbing wash of spice, fruitcakes, vanilla and cream

Conclusion: Definitely worth the $110 spent. I tried sipping this right after getting home from the store about 3 weeks ago. It just tasted like the Glenfarclas 12yo. I decided to let this breath for an hour and 30 minutes. Looks like it helped. :P

Score: 94/100



Many whiskys start to mellow out around the 15 year mark, but I find for the Glenfarclas, 21 is the first point where something you'd call 'smooth' begins to show itself. Everything before it to me is varying degrees of Whoa sherry, but there is definitely nothing wrong with that. 10 is too wild for my tastes, but add two years and it's completely different. Never had the 15, but the 17 is bigtime sherry coupled with surprising alcohol burn; still a bucking bronco even this old. It's 25 where there are the distinct layers of age. Sip a 21 and there's still some bite at the finish, but a 25 goes down velvet. The nose is definitely full of complexity, I could enjoy just that all day.

For some distilleries age statements might just be a number, but for Glenfarclas there's a considerable difference between the years. Thankfully their OBs are very reasonaly priced: just ~$400 for their 40 y.o.?!



All three are similar, but I'd put Glenfarclas closer to Abelour than Macallan. (Because of that Glenfarclas 105 v. A'bunadh is a debate that will rage long after we're gone) I'd recommend you sample 105 or 12 before you take the plunge - though if you're hunting for something with that age statement, you won't find much else for the same cost. I'd nominate Talisker 25 too if you're into that sort of thing, and if it's a good price.

Speaking of which, where is your rough location? I live in upper NJ and $127 is about the avg around here for the farclas 25. You've probably already shopped around where you're at but if I can save you a little I will.



i'm still new to scotch, and i haven only dabbled in peated scotches.  i can't say i've had a great experience with them so far though.  i understand that talisker is a pretty complex, and smokey one. i'm definitely open to try this stuff, but i'm way too nervous to seek out the 25 year. i think it's fair to try the glenfarclas 12 before going all in on the 25.

as for location, i'm in san jose, CA and i haven't really shopped that hard yet. any idea how i could try some farclas 12? i guess i could try a decent whiskey bar or something. i really appreciate the information, any other input would be neat.



The islands and Islay are pretty diverse, but still decisive.

The right bar will have a bottle, it's no Glenfiddich Johnnie Walker or Diageo single malt I admit but it's not obscure either. Check the net or the resources right here on /r/scotch for bars and shops. There's got to be something close by that specializes in or has a soft spot for whiskys. I see swaps negotiated and reviewed on here, but it's usually the high-end stuff being traded.

Just a final word of warning: if you somehow end up with opportunity for Glenfarclas 10, don't judge the distillery by it. It is wildly different than the rest of the range.






Glenfarclas 21

Age 21 years old

Cask type   Sherry Cask

Strength    43.0 % Vol.

Bottle size 700 ml

Nose: sherry, oak, a bit smoke, flowery, typical Glefarclas character, thick and warm

Mouth: soft and mellow, sherry, very nicely integrated oak

Finish: a bit tanins - but not negative, sherry candy (?), a bit malty, medium long ,tad grassy and earthy, orange marmelade

Comments: Mellow and enjoable. Nothing earth shattering but pretty good. I like it. For it's age the price is very good as well.

85 points




Thanks for the reviews. I've tried the 'farclas 12, 15, and 17 and enjoy them all.

You should mix it up and try reviewing a sherried whisky sometime ;)



Glenfarclas 21 43%

Wasn?t planning on reviewing this tonight, but I?ve just seen my beloved Liverpool ripped to shreds by Real Madrid and I need cheering up. A sample from the wonderful /u/scotch_fanatic. I haven?t had much Glenfarclas, but what I have had, I?ve loved. Their 105 is everpresent in my collection of open bottles and is great value for money. Anyway, time to drown my sorrows. 21 years in a sherry cask.

Not bad, not amazing. A little too soapy, musky and pungent for my liking. Is this what sherry haters call ?sulphurous?? Some nice oak and Christmas cake though. 

Big improvement. Really punchy fruits. Nice progression of flavours in the mouth too. Actually feel like 43% really works well here, some of these more spicy wine flavours might be a bit hot at a higher strength. But who knows, the 105 is gorgeous. 

Nice, interesting finish.

Hmm I like this a lot. Very drinkable. The tropical nature of the palate and finish isn?t one I?ve encountered before, so that?s always welcome. The nose isn?t the best, and there?s not great continuity between nose and palate. But that?s a good thing, and I really like drams that improve. Keeps you guessing. Would It be better at cask strength? Quite possibly, but at 43 it?s pretty damn good. Doesn?t quite make the 90s, but has successfully cheered me up.

88/100



Nice review.   

21 years in a sherry cask.  

If I recall correctly, glenfarclas' base expressions are all vatted of sherry and bourbon casks. With a high proportion of sherry casks, ofcourse.



REVIEW #94: Glenfarclas 21 year - 43% abv

Nose:  Thick, sweet, dark spices, burnt sugar, sweet wet smoke, custard, vanilla, clove, fruitcake, dank cellar, molasses, bananas foster, dried citrus peel, dark chocolate covered orange, old oak, leather, cooked overripe apples, streusel topping, cinnamon stick, apple cider, ripe sour mushy bartlett pear, slightly wet autumn leaves, damp earth, omg I could sit and smell this for hours.  Pomegranate pith, walnuts or pecans, or maybe it?s almonds, figs, raisins, prunes, herbal, beeswax, spent fireworks (but more subtle this time), fennel, nutmeg, cocoa butter.  Big, mature, balanced, textured, perfect.

Taste: Slow onset, sweet, then sour (grapes?), then a sour red peppery heat, hint of salt on the sides of the tongue.  Burnt sugar stands out, dried herbs, dry dark spices, wet oak, vanilla, custard, pepperyness builds over time.  Dry bitter chocolate. Scalded milk.  Overcooked caramel, but not burned yet.  Thick, oily, mouth-watering. Not as complex as the nose, but very satisfying.  I can swish this around for upwards of a minute without losing flavors.

Finish: Slow, the heat gradually rises and falls, leaves behind a hint of pear and apples, cinnamon heat, bitter chocolate and oaky tannins in the back of the throat, a steady glowing ember of heat remains near the adams apple, fruitcake, mouth-watering in the front, drying in the back. Flavors coat the gums and insides of the cheeks and wrap around the entire tongue.  The last remnant of a flavor hints at the spent gunpowder note I?ve been getting throughout this distillery?s range.

Score: 90/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Dunno what else to say.  It?s really, really good.



My Scotch buddy came back from Texas for a few weeks, so we coordinated schedules so we could go through more samples together.  A few of these are going to be repeats for me, but they were so good I wanted to make sure he tried them.  My goal was to introduce him to the wonderful world of vertical tastings.  It was a real eye-opening experience for me the first time I did it.  It really shows a distillery's character and the influence of oak over time.  

This batch covers Glenfarclas.  Next up will be GlenDronach and then Glengoyne.  

REVIEW #105: Glenfarclas 21 year - 43% abv - (RE-REVIEW)

Nose:  Thicker, heavier, syrupier, stronger cola, cooling mint, cinnamon, bit more smoke, more spent gunpowder, burnt sugar, high % dark chocolate, plum, fig, the faintest hint of an over ripened sour pear, more complex than the 17yo, hard root beer candies, heather honey, honeysuckle floral.

Taste: Oilier on the tongue, Dr. Pepper / Cherry cola, butterscotch, dry peppery oak, unsweetened cocoa powder, salted darkened butter, dunnage warehouse, 

Finish: long with lingering cocoa, toffee, hazelnuts

Score: 90/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: A lot chocolatier, each step thickens the syrup and darkens the sweetness.  The fruit of the 10yo is fresh, green and crisp, and with each step it ages/ripens/dries out.  Great dram.




Yeah.  I've been thinking about that line in my reviews.  It doesn't really say enough.  

Maybe a motivation level works better



Great reviews!

It's called a horizontal, though.

A vertical would be a comparison of different vintages of the same age.

I just realized this recently...



I think you got that backwards. 

Wikipedia says vertical tastings sample multiple vintages from the same distillery/winery to emphasize the differences in age. 

Horizontal tastings sample the same vintage from multiple distilleries/wineries to emphasize differences in distillery/winery styles. 

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wine_tasting



Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wine_tasting

HelperBot_? v1.0 I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 4917



I have a scotch buying problem. There's just so much to try!

(quickly hides the 135 empty sample bottles he went through in 11 months...)  

Yeah, you should probably get some help.



Reviews #124-128 (25 year posted prior)

Hello everyone! I?ve got a soft-spot for Glenfarclas? I?d even say they?re probably my favorite distillery (Despite my obsession with peat). Glenfarclas offers an incredibly high quality, consistent product that is widely available and very reasonably priced (around 150 bucks for a 25 year old whisky!). At any rate, I?ve been working on a vertical for you all? unfortunately I?m missing the 15 year from my lineup because it is not available in the U.S.

I did this review of the course of a few days, there?s going to be some deviances in depth and process because I?m just not that consistent of a person, but I would like the reader to take one thing away: Glenfarclas produces a very consistent product and the whole range is a very unadaultered representation of how a spirit progressively changes as it ages, my notes might not show that though.

Here goes!

Glenfarclas 21, 43% abv, Speyside

Nose: Sweet, slightly minty sherry. Very oily in the nose. Floral, cedarwaood and mahogany cologne. Persimmon cookies, plum and apricot preserves. Sweet mineral oil.

Palate: Spicy and full of life considering the age and low abv. Friendly buttery wood. Bitter dry sherry, a touch of sulfur. The edginess from the younger drams is really starting to tone down. Quite a soft floral influx moving into the finish

Finish: Bitter floral quickly moves past, sweet yet earthy vegetal profiles move in, much of the flavors are muted by a mineral presence. Satisfying long and intertwined finish.

92/100




Excellent reviews! I always like to see the bigger comparison tastings.

Also if you want to try the 15 I've got a bottle of it and am willing to swap samples.



Thank you! I'd say the 12 is a safe bet for getting your foot in the door, I can't really recommend the 10 over the 12, and if you're in the U.S. (I.e. Can't get the 15) there's a pretty big jump in price from 12 to 17. 

If you're already initiated with sherry bombs, the 105 is fantastic as well. 



105 is the English proof number. It's 120 proof, or 60% alcohol by volume in the USA. This cask-strength bottle has no age statement and is probably from casks that are 7-9 years old. 

Also, it would be "distilled in 1908" not bottled. Whisky does not age in the bottle like wine does. 



Just a quick tidbit, 105 was the original legal proofing required in England. Sailors used to be payed in what was called "the rum ration" - as in, part of their pay was literally alcohol. Since they were being payed in alcohol, they had to prove that they weren't getting short-changed. Alcohol burns around 52.5%, so a simple test proved pretty quickly whether they were being payed the appropriate amount of rum rations or not.

I could be mistaken, but that's my understanding of its origins.



Frickin' awesome.  I've only had the 12, but it was so damn good.  Must try more.  Too bad about the 15 not being available here in 'merica.  

Great review, Allumina.  



I tend to just cup my Glencairn in my hand to keep it warm. 

I've been considering a different glass, like a smaller brandy snifter, for that reason alone.



I had two. Had.

I only have one now, but damnit, its an awesome glass! Also, half the fun is saying courvoisier



Also, half the fun is saying courvoisier

Damn right, lol. It just looks kinda tacky

My wife got me mine at a goodwill!







