GlenDronach 21 Parliament  

Definitely a great dram, but I'll be honest, I didn't give this one as much thought since I was poured a huge pour of the next whisky. 




Wow. All three sound really fantastic, but the cask strength 20 year old sounds... Amazing. 

Though if I remember correctly you told us all before you went that the 20 year would be split into 50ml samples and the first 14 people to comment on this thread would get one...

Right? ;)



Back with my first official review since the hiatus.  Been sitting on this bottle for a couple of months and I'm really excited to write down some tasting notes.  Tossed in a drop of water and let it sit maybe 5 min before enjoying.  Enough flim flamming.

Nose: Boom.  Dried cherries, bittersweet chocolate, rich espresso, and damp oak.  A hint of gunpowder in the background representing a faint sulfur note (not detrimental).  Fig, chocolate syrup, eucalyptus, and a hint of orange oil.  Intense sherry.  The sweet-sherry notes of the 15yo Revival are there, but this is a darker, woodier, and more tannin-filled whisky.  The bottle says "Matured in a combination of the finest Oloroso and Pedro Ximenez sherry casks".  Yep.

Taste: First sip was a monster, so I added a bit more water to disperse the tannins.  Rich sherry on the palate, and I mean RICH.  This is just as rich as the 15yo if not richer.  Glendronachs have a habit of being that way. Dried cherry again with plum and a bit of fig.  Bitter cranberry, maple, and strawberries in syrup.  The sherry is absolutely oozing out of this dram with an espresso-like bitterness and oaky backbone.

Finish: Tannins.  Tannins everywhere.  Espresso, bittersweet chocolate, dark fruit, and sweet oloroso cling on the tongue and stay put.  Clove and a hint of fresh ginger mingle with the sweetness before that fades and leaves nothing but a fat, dry, oaky, tannin party on your tongue.  It's been over sixty seconds now since I took a sip and the tannins are still there.  This finish is very long and entertaining.

Final notes: A sherry bomb that's a bit of a stunner.  If you're not a fan of tannins this probably isn't the whisky for you.  The 15 year old seems to have a bit of a brighter quality to it and is less pervasive in the finish.  They are still quite similar whiskies when it comes down to it (I haven't read my 15yo review in a while but I hope the notes line up a bit...) but this one has the oak power behind it.  The tannins just faded (it's been three minutes) but I still taste Oloroso and oak.  (That's pretty damn long).  Plus, this is bottled a bit higher than a typical Glendronach at 48%.  I'm a fan, but for the money the 15yo is probably a more accessible bet.  This is an evening whisky if I've ever had one, and I'll be sure to enjoy every drop.

Final score: 92/100



A distillery making really good sherried whisky? 

Yeah... Not gonna turn into Macallan at all.



Love the "temperature gage" graphic!  hahha.

But in all seriousness, the 15 Revival is --in my limited exposure-- the best whisky I've had to date.

I would love to try the 21 Parliament.  I'm starting a new job soon, so maybe it'll be my self-congratulatory bottle.  I've also been thinking about an HP18, or a Glenfarclas 15.  hmmmm, choices.



Are you sure there's sulphur in there?  I've never noticed any.

The tannins are the reason I prefer the 15 and 18.  21 years in this wood is just too long.   Nitpicking though.  I've yet to taste a bad Glendronach. 

You should seek out some single casks... you'll have to revise your 92 score for the 21yr or you'll run out of numbers to give the 17-19 year old single casks from early 1990s.  My goodness, they're heavenly!



Definitely a faint hint of sulfur on the nose.  Faint, you have to kind of look for it.  Comes out after about 3 days in the bottle.  It's not overpowering at all, and doesn't show up in the taste.

I've had a bunch of single cask stuff, some of it fantastic, some very meh. My scale sucks!  I try to keep it relatively consistent between reviews, but I've never put much weight on scores.  92/100 is a high mark but this one deserves it IMO.  Above 92 takes something really, really special.

If I could go back I'd scale down my lower end more than the higher end.  My scale tends to bottom out around 75-80.  I like whisky too much and hate to give F's.  I'd be a bad teacher.



Hi all, seeing as Christmas time is coming up (and I'm jealous of all those advent calendar guys...), why not review a couple of drams bursting with Christmas spice?
It is of course the wonderfully sherried Glendronach, here are a couple of reviews for you to peruse~

Glendronach 21 Years Old "Parliament", 48% ABV

NCF, No Colouring, Oloroso & PX Cask Matured

Nose: Rich fruit cake, christmas pudding, butter, allspice.
PX sherry, candied orange, gingerbread, oatmeal cookie dough.
Muscovado sugar, brandy-soaked fruits, prunes.

An amazing nose, spiced, rich and buttery!

Palate: Initial malty breadiness, marzipan, walnuts, stewed plums and chocolate raisins.
Drying oloroso nuttiness towards the end, doughy notes coming in and an oaky dryness.
Mouth-drying oloroso sherry oak.

Finish: Long and sweet, walnuts and sherry oak dryness. Slightly burnt raisins.
Spiced dried fruits going on and on . Nutty sherry and some coffee too. 

Overall: If the tasting notes don't make it clear, this is a wonderful dram! Such a rich, luscious heavily sherried and well-aged malt.
It's certainly not subtle, but the rich christmas spice and buttery sherry are sublime. And the nose really is to die for. 

It gets an A+, a top level whisky that should be experienced if at all possible! The only problem is it's not cheap, so save it for special occasions ;)

Afterthoughts,

I have tried the Glendronach 8, 12, 15, 18 and 21, and they are all outstanding and consistent drams. The thing I find nice is that there is a clear common backbone to them all, with the sherry oak intensity ramping up as the age gets higher. I haven't tasted that many distilleries at various ages, so this is the only one so far where I have seen the linear progression of the flavour profile along the age increase. If anyone has thoughts on other distilleries to try at different ages, leave your opinion!



GlenDronach 21 Parliament 

Speyside, 48% ABV

Nose: Sherry, charcoal, raspberries, caramel, grapes, cherries, port. Very musky

Palate: Dark chocolate, plums, cranberries, raspberries, cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, spices, sherry, salted caramel, port, other dark fruits, mint, oak

Finish: Long, dark fruits, nutmeg, spices, oak, dark chocolate, sherry, oranges, a bit bitter

85/100. Very bold and dark flavors, almosts tastes like a port at times rather than a whisky. Plums, cherries, cocoa, oak throughout, heavily wine influenced. Tastes like drinking up a forest floor which is good for the most part but overdoes it a few marks on the oak and bitterness. Reminiscent of the 15, though not really much of an improvement over it - I'd score them the same.

Talisker 57? North 

Island, 57% ABV

Nose: Brine, sea salt, leather, herbs, lime, cocoa, pepper, BBQ

Palate: Buttery, pepper, smoked salted meat, thick and oily, oranges, nuts, lemon, caramel

Finish: Lemon, brine, sea salt, chocolate, caramel, peppers, leafy

87/100. Classic Talisker. Sweet, salty and briny all in one. Stronger than most of their offerings but still ridiculously smooth. They can do no wrong as far as I'm concerned - would put this right up against the 10.




Whisky Review No. 10: GlenDronach 21yo Parliament

Color: Dark Amber

Nose: Pungent sherry, brown sugar, and rum-infused plums. It is reminiscent of the 15yo Revival, yet much more condensed. The 48% ABV pack a punch and a few drops of water help the un-initiated with this experience. This is not required though!

Palate: Intense autumnal fruits like plums and dark berries. Dark chocolate sauce and candied overripe cherries follow straight away. The alcohol is a mere whisper amongst these heavy-handed sherry aromas.

Finish: Looooooong, warming, endless chocolate, and lots of fruity sweetness from the sherry.

Conclusion: A gorgeous dram. If not for the price, I would drink it a lot more often. However, at the same time, a price between 70 and 80? for a 21yo single malt is very reasonable as well, especially in these days. The numerous single cask bottlings may represent the only way to increase the pleasure that derives from old and heavy GlenDronachs ? if you can spare the coin!

94/100



Shall have to look for some of these, then.

A new month soon, government-owned liquor stores might change up their stock a little bit. Let's hope they pick up the Revival at least.



What better day for a GlenDronach vertical and passing review #50 than Scotchitt Saturday? (That's not a thing.)

I reviewed the nose of all four before tasting anything and then reviewed the palate and finish of each individually. After all four were done, I jumped around between them to compare each. Overall conclusion is at the end.

Glendronach 21 Parliament 48%

N: Syrupy sherry. Orange peel. Dried figs, cherries, and plums. Oak. Butterscotch chip cookies.

P: Dry and oaky. Preserved figs and raisins. Nutty. Cocoa. Vanilla. Pepper and baking spices. Old leather.

F: Hard and spicy, long. Dry and oaky, more spice. Lingering vanilla and funky fruit.

85/100




Thank you kindly! I was a bit let down by these drams. Should have gone with the Golder Still for #50 instead :P

Oh well, there's always #60!



Congratulations on your fifties,

I also was first a bit let down by the 15 Revival, but after a couple of days having it, the dram improved enormously.

I guess it is a whisky that needs some oxygen, time, and love to fully develop its potential :) 

Have you finished the samples? If you don't, could you wait some days, and then share with us if you get any better experience?

Thanks! 



Glendronach Parliament 21
48% ABV, 60 ml sample         

Nose Very strong dark sherry, very musky oak, honey comb, ?ber sweet orange, Marascino liquer, dades, figs,
Complex, but too musky and sweet.

Palate Dark, hot and creamy sherry, strawberry jam, dark wood, cinnamon sprinkled toffee apples, chocolate covered orange. 
Pretty delicious!

Finish Sherry, dark charries, bitter lemon zest, grape, bitter wood.
Short, with off notes. 

Well, this is an odd one. The palate is pretty good, but the rest just falls flat. I can certainly see why this is so cheap compared to it's age. 

Overall, 71/100  

Buy again? NO.

@review_bot 'Glendronach'



/u/Scotch_Fanatic's Glendronach reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Interesting! I think I scored it comparably to the GlenDronach 21. Let's see if the bot can pull it up. 

@review_bot scotch 'Glenfarclas 21'



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Glenfarclas 21 reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Haha I didn't mean to try to convince you to keep trying (I don't really want to see demand for Glendronach increase further), for one reason or another a distillery's house style just might not do a lot for someone, and was curious if that was the case with you and Glendronach.

That said, I've had one of their vintage single casks, and it was great - however, the 15 is still my favorite by a hair.



Go for the 1993 casks if you ever get a chance, they always sell out first for some reason, i've been sniped by my friends on the last three batches now, bastards.

Also CS Batch 1 is a good 5 points clear of Batch 3 for me. just seems a lot more mature spirit.



Glendronach is a distillery I've neglected for far too long, having only tried their Tawny Port which was AWFUL. That kinda put me off for a while, until I nabbed a dram of the 15 Revival at the Good Spirits Co. That, paired with /u/gregbenson314's ravings about their single casks, and Scotchit's general verdict that it was most likely to be the distillery currently at its peak, put me back onto the idea of them. Anyway, here we are:

Thanks to /u/gregbenson314 and /u/jleese for the drams 

Glendronach 21 Parliament 48% 

The age statement is 21, though this is a conservative estimate. Aged in Oloroso and PX casks, this is a real labour of love. A slightly lower ABV, so my advice is not to be too liberal with the water. NCF, NC, SNP. 

Smells old, with pudding-fruit notes and an ashy background. 

Again, the same "Old" flavours, with additions of fruits and stodgy puddings. Really nice mouthfeel and a great depth and progression of flavours. Loving this.

Oloroso heavy. Not a bomb, that's doing it a disservice. It's complex and delicious , with cream, fruit, pudding and old wood throughout. Very funky too- that seems to be part and parcel of the Glendro house style. A truly great dram.

94/100

As my score suggests I preferred the 21 every so slightly, that said it is nearly double the price of the CS so if I had to buy one it would be that. I am going to pay Glendro a lot more attention now, and plan on picking up a Single Cask offering soon. Really enjoyed this comparative review, and felt I got more out of both  whiskies as a result.

Thanks for reading. 



it doesn't totally dominate. 

Which is what I love about some sherried whiskies. The 'sherry bombs' that are just sweet molasses laden thick bombs are all one-dimensional and uninteresting. Glendronach has some great examples, as does their sister Glenglassaugh. All these Macallan CS 'Sherry bombs' and A'bunadhs' etc etc can all get fucked.



Lots of people seem to dislike the 21.. I don't, I love it! Glad you do too.

The NAS CS Glendronach is one of my favourite whiskies (I personally prefer it to the 21). And I recon it's better than it's rivals (Aberlour A'bundha and Glenfarclas 105), can't believe how good it is for >?50!



REVIEW #113: GlenDronach 21 year - Parliament - 48% abv

Nose:  Strong, dark, heavy, thick, red twizzlers, old leather, dark oak spiciness, cola, dried orange zest, cocoa powder, figs, molasses, coffee grounds?, grape kool-aid?, autumn leaves, musty cellar

Taste: Brown sugar, molasses, syrupy, honey, burnt sugar, vanilla custard, creme brulee, raisins, prunes, figs, dry peppery oak, cola.

Finish: Lingering vanilla, chocolate, black tea, cola, drying oakiness, black pepper heat

Score: 91/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Dark, rich, heavy, strong, bold, fantastic stuff.



Nicely done!  Always great to see side by side and/or vertical reviews.  

I've been thinking about saving my Glendronach 15 to open around Christmas time, but these kinds of great reviews are making it difficult!



Great stuff, I love these verticals. I've tasted the 15y and honestly didn't like it all that much. However, I don't love other big sherrybombs like the A'Bunadh and Glenfarclas 105 either.

I still bought a bottle of the 15 though, my palate will probably change and it'll be off the market soon enough, never hurts to have a good whisky in the cabinet.



A quick review before I make like a bird and head north for the winter. If I recall correctly, this was a Christmas present from my parents. Flowery, pretentious descriptors ahead. Whatever, I like GlenDronach.

GlenDronach Parliament. Speyside single malt, aged 21 years in Oloroso and Pedro Xim?nez sherry casks, and bottled at 48% ABV. Local bottle price: $160 for 700mL.

Nose: Contrary to my prior experiences with the younger sherried GlenDronachs (all big fruity sherry bombs), this is presenting a much more wood-driven character on the nose, with wet oak and malty vanilla dominating the first sniff. Deeper investigation reveals a subtle (yet complex) fruit cake layer underneath: juicy prunes, dried figs, brandied apricots, and macadamia nuts.

Palate: Medium-bodied entry gradually builds to full, with an unbelievably creamy, velvety mouthfeel. Stewed cherries and pears, passionfruit, and salted caramel, heavily doused in an ocean of double cream. A freight train of tannins arrives fashionably late; adding an edge that the creaminess sought to tame, and beefing up the fruit and caramel elements.

Finish: The wood dimension from the nose hits back immediately upon arrival, with dry, gently bitter oak and ground pepper starting off what is to be a reasonably long finish. A variety of red berries making their way in (predominantly cranberries, with touches of overripe raspberries and strawberries), as well as a slight grapefruit acidity. Rich desserts on the tail of the finish: custard pudding and cr?me br?l?e, held by a persistent weight of earthy tannins in the back palate 

There's no denying this is a superb whisky, although I was certainly thrown by what appeared at first to be an abrupt departure from the tannic, bold younger expressions. A real contemplative whisky - nothing overt that will grab you by the collar if you're distracted. Devote the proper attention, however, and it's one of the more outstanding dessert drams you're likely to find this side of $200.

93/100



I'm pretty sure UncleTobys feels the same as you do. He didn't mind this one when he tried it, but he hated 12-18. It's not just you.

More for the rest of us!



Nice review. I just bought the 21 Parliament a little while ago and thought I paid too much ($120-130 CAD) but seeing that you paid $160... I don't feel so bad.

Excellent Scotch. I would buy it again any day.



I feel the same way about Portwood. I'd rather put in a little bit extra for Tun. 

Portwood wouldn't even be worth the money at Parliament price. 
