Distilled in Kirkwall in the Orkney Islands.  Bottled at 43% ABV.

Nose: Pronounced candy sweetness, a bit of saltwater, light smoke

Palate: Medium to light weight, mouthcoating.  Apples, red fruit, some peat, toffee, vanilla.

Finish: Warm and smooth, medium length.  Quite pleasant smokiness and brine.

Score: 84/100

Decided to finally try this after reading about it here several times.  Its very nice, excellent value.  Easy to drink and smooth with enough complexity and Islay character to keep it interesting.  I like it more than than Caol Isla or Talisker of the same age.



Distilled in Kirkwall in the Orkney Islands.  Bottled at 43% ABV.

Nose: Pronounced candy sweetness, a bit of saltwater, light smoke

Palate: Medium to light weight, mouthcoating.  Apples, red fruit, some peat, toffee, vanilla.

Finish: Warm and smooth, medium length.  Quite pleasant smokiness and brine.

Score: 84/100

Decided to finally try this after reading about it here several times.  Its very nice, excellent value.  Easy to drink and smooth with enough complexity and Islay character to keep it interesting.  I like it more than than Caol Isla or Talisker of the same age.



What could be better on a beautiful evening like today than writing my first Scotchit review of Highland Park 12? My current scotch favorites include Aberlour 16 & a'Bunadh, and Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban. I currently have a bottle of Uigeadail on the way thanks to all of the feedback it has received here, so I?m excited to try it out next.

Finally popped my Scotchit cherry, and it didn?t even hurt all that much! This is a great introductory scotch considering the price, taste, and availability. It?s not overly complex, but has enough flavor to really showcase the difference between scotch and American whiskey. I would probably recommend somebody new to whiskey try some Glenlivet first, but for a more experienced imbiber, this makes a great first foray into scotch.

Would I re-buy a bottle? Probably, but I?m in no rush to do so.



Thank you!

I'll be opening my Longrow RED and Glenfarclas 105 within the next 6 weeks so I should get some more reviews then. For now I'm just catching up on my opened bottles which happen to be primarily American and Irish.



this is a very nice whisky but at least in Canada it's still double the price of famous grouse, which is definitely worse, but not THAT much worse. 

I do find that HP 12 is often in bars that would only have like J&B and Glenfiddich and in that context it's God's gift to man. 



Highland Park 12 year old, 86 proof

Color: apple cider

Nose: lightly roasted nuts, baked yams, malted milk, spiced vanilla

Taste: malted peat, robust raisins and vanilla, salted cashew butter, toasted honey

Finish: fresh light smooth yet full bodied and lingers quite nice.

This is one of my goto's.  A favorite that I can recommend to all whisky drinkers no matter what you like.  It has something for everyone in the taste department.  Just a solid malt and nicely priced.

92/100



This is one of the more famous island malts, from the Isle of Orkney. I had some of the 18 and Dark origins at Whisky Live but I was a wee bit far gone to make notes.

Nose: Sulphur, sherry, bit of seaweed, pinapple syrup, salt, very weak smoke, some malty notes, cacao powder, bad white wine on its way to becoming vinegar. Honey.  Some slight vegetal peat notes but you have to look for them. There was this canned vegetable paste we'd get in combat rations in the army, it sounded gross but wasn't bad, this kind of smells like it.

Palate: Dry salty sherry, woody notes,  honey, herbal notes.

Finish: Medium, dry sherry wood, with some mild smoke and burned matches after the sherry fades.

Rating: 7/10

I have had this before, and I must say I think I found the taste a bit of a let down. The whisky was CF and 40% ABV so watery as is, but I remember it being more flavourful. Not a bad whisky though, was fun to nose for a while, but it could be so much better. 



I am by no means a sophisticated whisky drinker but I recently went through a bottle of this and it wasn't my favorite.  It didn't taste good neat but was tolerable over ice or even with a bit of water.  I bought it because I had the 16 at as part of a flight and thought it would taste similar.  It didn't.  

So why did I drink the whole bottle if I didn't like it?  Well I didn't want a $50 bottle of scotch go to waste ands, as I mentioned, it wasn't terrible on the rocks.



Highland Park 12

Highland Park is an Island distillery (from the Isle of Orkney) that?s owned by Edrington, the nice people behind The Macallan, Glenrothes, a little known blend called Famous Grouse, and a few other lesser-known distilleries. This is one of the first bottles I got when I was really getting in to Scotch a few years back, and I quite enjoyed it at the time.

12 years old. 43% abv. Probably filtered and colored.

Nose - Honey, toffee, vanilla, and peppery-gingery spice are front and center, though lurking behind those notes seem to be some sherried ones - it seems like I can pick up some dark dried fruit, gingerbread, and Mexican chocolate notes in the background. Lightly smoky, with some light coastal/briny notes. As is reputed, has a bit of everything.

Taste - Honey, light toffee, vanilla, lemon, seawater, black pepper, ginger, light smoke, dark dried fruit, Mexican chocolate. The notes are listed in order of decreasing prominence - again, the honey and toffee are front and center, but I pick up a bit of everything else lurking behind those.

Finish - The honey/toffee theme continues with some lemon, light smoke, brine,  ginger and black pepper. Slightly tangy, with some nice sweet+spice. Not that big, but lasts a while.

There?s a reason this is at the middle of the malt map - it?s a jack of all trades, master of none. It is, though, still pretty good at everything it does, and even though it?s something widely available and kind of a beginner malt, I still really enjoy it.

88/100




Yep, the 15 uses American Sherry refill casks. The 12 and 18 Spanish Sherry refill.

So the liquor store guy was wrong, no big surprise. 

So now I need to see what else in my inventory used Am casks vs Sp casks - and whether I like one over the other.

Also, HP uses no bourbon casks in spite of what you've (and I) have read or been told. 



Also, HP uses no bourbon casks in spite of what you've (and I) have read or been told. 

Source? That'd kind of surprise me, given how ubiquitous bourbon barrels are, and the fact that I've seen bourbon barrel matured HP IB's. I suppose they may fill some at the distillery for Famous Grouse or whatever, though.



Check out:

Enjoy...



HP12 is very good for the price but for x2.5 the price of the 12, the 18 is not worth it.

I'd re-buy 18 if it was priced $80 



on Friday night, I got an invite to a belated Burns event and had the privilege of sharing some drinks with a great group of guys. Everyone brought a bottle and there were a few I hadn't tried or reviewed before, so I took a few notes and some quick scores. Obviously not as in-depth as a typical review, and more my overall impression of each dram. Here's the post on the TWS website as well

Once we got the whole selection on the table, I realized that I've never reviewed the Famous Grouse before, despite doing a couple of the other members of the Grouse line-up. 

Nose: sweet, grain alcohol

Palate:  grainy, sharp, sweet, sugar

Finish: mercifully short

Score: 55

grainy, sharp and tastes artificially sweet. Not good especially when there are much better blend options out there. 

I've never had anything from Aultmore, and don't see reviews of it often either, so I had no pre-conceived notions and was excited to try something unknown

Nose: tons of fruit. Peaches, apples, pears. Light and typical speyside nose

Palate: wow salty! Same fruit, woody bitterness. That salt is really surprising

Finish: long, briney, some fruit. 

Score: 81

better than I expected, as the nose didn't promise a ton of complexity. That salt really surprised me and the finish was way longer than I expected. Quite nice. 

I've had this before a couple of times, but never in a context where taking review notes was possible. Glad to get a review of it done finally. 

Nose: fruit, apple, honey, oak, quite mellow

Palate: tons of oak, lots of fruit, some honey, way more balanced than the 10. chocolate

Finish: medium length, sweet, oaky

Score: 86

very nice. I'm a fan. Not many glenmo's have impressed me, but that was really nice. ALSO, when posting this, I realized I actually HAVE reviewed it before as a mystery dram and scored it an 86 back then too! I didn't guess right on that mystery, but had many of the same tasting notes, so that's a win for the palate. 

hadn't had this solera malt before, or any of 'fiddich's travel retail line-up, but I enjoy the 15 Solera Vat bottling, so this could be good too. 

Nose: dark fruit, sherry, nutty oak. Tons going on, really nice nose. 

Palate: doesn't deliver on the nose. Some sherry, apples and dark fruit but very thin. Something missing. 

Finish: medium length, sweet.

Score: 79

not terrible but the palate and finish don't deliver on what the nose is promising. Not nearly as good as the 15 Solera. 

Another one I haven't had before but was curious how it stacked up vs the Amber. 

Nose: smells like typical Macallan, sherry, speyside-esque fruitiness. 

Palate: interesting, less fruit than the nose and more oak. Somewhat surprising based on the fruity nose. Some honey

Finish: short and oaky

Score: 80

disappointing finish, typical nose, but it was nicer on the palate than I expected. Rated the amber in the high 70s so my rating lines up with the experience.

Last time I reviewed this was also in a group setting and we aggregated scores, landing at 85. I wanted to see how it stacked up on an individual scoring basis. 

Nose: salty, oak, brine, sweet

Palate: light peat and smoke, more oak, quite salty

Finish: medium length, smoke and salt

Score: 82

nice entry level peated dram. I scored it slightly lower than the group did a couple years ago, but am happy with its score sitting around my average here. 

I haven't had this before, but am pretty sure there's a sample of it somewhere in my place. We had it before the Laphroaig and Port Charlotte thinking it'd be less heavily peated, but I think we may have been wrong?.

Nose: heavy peat, red fruit, sweet, smoky

Palate: ashy peat, walnuts, tons of earth, very nutty, dark fruit, some sweetness

Finish: long, peaty, lots of smoke

Score: 88

very nice. Love the balance of fruit, peat and earthiness. I think there's a sample of this somewhere in my backlog and I look forward to re-visiting it. 

Haven't tried the Triple Wood before, but have had the PX cask travel retail bottling which I believe is similar. 

Nose: peat, sherry, sweet ash, smoke, cherries

Palate: more ash, peat, cherry, sherry, smoke sweetness

Finish: long, ashy, peaty. 

Score: 86

very nice. Well balanced, but I did prefer the bunna. 

Besides these, I had some writer's tears to start the night, Glen Garioch Founder's Reserve, Auchentoshan 12 and Port Charlotte 2007 CC:01, all of which I've had before and didn't review. Overall a very fun night, though my head hurt a bit the next morning. thanks to the Grace West crew for the invite!



Highland Park 12 40%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Heather, honey, creamy toffee, vanilla, subtle heathery peat, raisins and cream, big malty note, nuts and toffee apples, chocolate orange, orange marmalade, butterscotch.

Taste: Honey, malt, heather, heathery peat, wood fire, toffee, barley, bit of coffee, orange marmalade.

Finish: Medium length. Drying with tannins and coffee.

Great value for money @ ?25.

71/100

?




Ha, it's always surprising to me when someone with hundreds of reviews has never reviewed something basic. Good reviews, "coffee" is always my main impression of HP but I don't see that note in many others' reviews.



Haha Yeah, always get a lot of coffee with HP and Sherry.

I realised though, I have reviewed one: Dark Origins. Totally forgot!



Hello again Scotchit! Today I'll be reviewing Highland Park 12, a tasty, interesting dram. I picked up my sample in Newfoundland, as the small samples aren't currently available at the liquor stores I shop at in Ontario. I have to start making room throughout the apartment, as otherwise my various collections of RPG books, alcohol, cooking/baking paraphernalia and other things will eventually land me on Horders. Thus it's time to start using up some samples. 

Price: $67.95 (CAD) in Ontario for a 750ml. I paid $12 for this 50ml sample in Newfoundland.

ABV: 43%

Region: Highland

Colour: Dirty Blonde

Nose: Smoke, dried fruit, ethanol, lemon peel, daisies, banana, maple.

This dram has a huge fruit undertone. Light at first, however it opened up as time went by, with the banana and the maple taking over.

Taste: Blueberry, leather, earth, basil, brown sugar, mandarins, allspice, olive oil.

The fruitiness seems to blend with an Italian-like flavour. It's quite complex for a 12 year whisky, with different sweetness, fruits and earthiness popping up. The blending is a little odd, though not in that "What the hell am I drinking" way, more in that "Well, this is different" way. 

Finish: Smoke, cloves, pear, fruit punch, red chilli flakes, red wine.

I think this Scotch shines with the finish. It's long, and the smoke and the spice, as well as some of the fruit/red wine lingers nicely. It seems to borrow from other regions and blends together nicely.

Conclusion: The taste would lead you to believe a fruit truck ran into an Eastside Mario's and the whole thing was set on fire, but not in a "oh damn, I had money in that place" way, more like "What a random group of events" way that leaves you staring and eventually talking to the local news. Seriously though, the taste was a little bit of a let down in that the two ends of the spectrum (the earthiness/Italian and the fruitiness) didn't come together for me in a cohesive way. 

The finish, however, makes up for this over and over, and it'd be a truly easy life is Highland Park 12 was your "worst choice". I`ll be aiming to find a sample size of the 15 (edit: I have heard skipping the 15 is a good idea, however I'd still like to try it) and the 18 to see if this Italian spice, smoke, and fruit combination grows with age.

80/100
