
Highland Park 18
Island, 43% ABV, chill-filtered, E150, 50ml sample

Nose: Light heathery smoke. Golden honey and sweet malt. Light tart grapefruit. Distinct oak. White pepper and slight brine. Toffee. 

Pretty nice. Less sherried than I expected, but it's pretty nice in a tart, sweet way. It's not great, though; or rather this doesn't really fit my tastes.  

Taste: Blendy. Bitter and woody. Acrid smoke. Light honey and malt. Light pears and vanilla. 

Yes, I am using "blendy" as a verb, because this palate shares the properties of most cheap blends I've tried, ie. that acrid smoky bitterness. There's a bit of other stuff in there, but not very much. Honestly, I feel like I'm pulling teeth trying to come up with something more to say here. Eventually, the acrid smokiness goes away - probably because my palate is numbed to it. So, that's good, I guess.

Finish: Short-medium length. Malty. Heather. Toasted oak. Light smoke. Light honey. 

Eh, it's alright. Oak and a decent hit of smoke arrive most strongly on the finish. However, it's only decent, not fantastic. 

Summary: An alright peated Speyside-style nose, followed by an unpleasant palate into an okay finish. At the price they sell this for, I'd say this is extremely skippable. Still not a huge fan of Highland Park, and I think at this point I think it's fair to say I never will be since I've tried the entire standard range apart from the 15, Loki and Thor. 

I have yet to review the 12 though I have tried it several times and always thought it was a bad bottle. Clearly, it wasn't and I just don't like Highland Park. 

That said, this is decent, and I wouldn't turn down a dram of this, but I'd compare it to Balvenie Doublewood most closely - okay, but boring. 

Score: 74/100
Meh.

Buy Again? No, waste of money. 



I'm wondering if your sample could have been tainted or not sealed properly? If I'm in the mood for a bit of smoke, I generally pour some of the 18, while the 12 is entirely forgettable and the 15 is middle-meh, as well. 

I'm wondering if you mean it has the look of e150a, or if you believe it's colored with e150a? This post has some communication between Ralfy and some HP and Ardbeg folks says otherwise. They do apparently chill filter, though they do it at a higher temp than some producers.

In any case, thanks for the review! I bought some glasses from TWE this week and grabbed some samples to pad the shipping. Can't wait to review them! Between that, the Secret Santa swap, and a few other /r/ScotchSwaps, I must have nearly 60 reviews waiting for me!



Highland Park 18, 43% ABV (yay!*)

Nose: Honey, vanilla and malt. Leather, tobacco smoke and a whiff of peat. Plums and cherries. Slightly floral and citric. Cinnamon and spices.

Taste: Buttery smooth, but a bit watery and thin. Honey, preserved lemon (salty) and oak. Sultanas and ripe apples. Caramel, barley sugar and green peppercorns. 

Finish: Tart and a bit dry. Green olives, dry oak and peat smoke. More honey, candied ginger and cocoa. Medium and slightly bitter.

I picked this up on sale and I'm glad I did. I drink a lot of Highland Park 12 at bars and I've always found it enjoyable, but not good enough to buy a bottle. This is a big improvement over the 12 - it's richer and more complex, rounder and more refined. The nose is fantastic and the taste is almost perfectly balanced with sweetness and saltiness. Great flavours, great scotch!

90/100

Review #30, thanks for reading.

*Aussies normally get 43% bottles watered down to 40%



Almost all bottlings get watered down to 40%, regardless of where.  "Cask Strength" bottles are the general exception - but you'll see variations.

For example, the standard Macallan 12 comes bottled at 43%.



I had the 15 not too long ago. While I thought it was good, I didn't think it was "better enough" than the 12 to justify an additional $20-30, depending on where I found it.

As it is, the Highland Park 12-year is a wonderful "basic" scotch that, while you certainly take the time to enjoy/savor the dram you're on, you don't feel the need to try and stretch the bottle out over a year because you paid so much for it. 



If this was 50+% ABV, it could easily become one of my favourite Scotches. 

The 18 was only $10 more than the 15!



Is it really that much better than the 12 to justify the price jump?

At my local liquor store, I can buy a bottle of 12 for ~$35, and a bottle of 15 for ~$55, but at the same store, a bottle of 18 is ~$195......

This seems a little excessive.... But if it really is that much better than the 12, I'm gonna have to start saving my pennies....



Thanks to /u/anagama for the sample!  Aged 18 years with 45% of the whisky coming from first fill sherry casks, and the other 55% of the whisky comes from refilled ?seasoned? sherry casks (typically seasoned American Oak).  Bottled at 43% ABV.

?

Nose: Strawberry fruit leather, big vanilla presence, some oak, and a bit of grapiness

Palate: Big and creamy mouthfeel.  Lots of fruits, jam, cherries, plums, red berries.  Big vanilla taste.  Some peat smoke and a hint of salt.

Finish: Long finish, the strong fruit slowly fades into vanilla, lots of vanilla.  Some toffee and then finally the peat takes over and warms the mouth for awhile.

Score: 89/100

?

Really, really nice whisky here.  Far better than the 12 year.  So much more complexity and balance.  I would love to have a bottle of this on hand, but at the price it sells for around here I can't quite justify it.  If I ever see it on sale I'll snap one up for sure though.



Highland Park 18 Year Old

(43%, sherry matured - a quick search seems to suggest a combination of 45% first fill + 55% refill casks)

?

Thanks to u/DistillAsian for this sample!

?

Nose: Chocolate, toffee, honey, gasoline, raisins, apple, pineapple, delicate hints of smoke and brine

Taste: Smoke, brine, honey, toffee, raisins, black licorice, nutmeg

Finish: Salt, sage, white bread, vanilla, oak

?

A nice range of soft notes on the nose, from a host of sweet and fruity notes with a combination of smoke and brine not far behind. It?s worth mentioning that there were some elusive floral and nutty notes to be found on nosing as well, but not quite present enough to fully note down with any conviction. An interesting reversal on tasting, now with the smoke and brine leading the way. Got a stronger sense of sherry here than on the nose. Though still on the thinner side, a surprisingly much better mouthfeel than the 43% ABV would suggest. Interesting bready and herbal notes on the finish. 

Well this one was quite the pleasant surprise. Though initially somewhat flat, it opened up very nicely the more time I spent with it. I?d love to try this at a higher strength, but as is this is a big step up from what I felt was a very ?blah? experience of the 12. 

?

85/100



Great review!

Forgot I had swapped this with you haha



Man that's insane!

Haha yea good thing I'm the only one that labels samples like that



What a great review :)

I should try this...



That's very generous! I will chuck you some back, if you'd like ;)

Also, Cuban cigars.



Norway is a shit place for alcohol in general, though ;)

But lemme know!



Mystery Sample picked and poured by my wife. I had a cask strength Ballechin prior to this so I feel like my tasting notes might be off by quite a few. That's the thing with blind tastings, if I get a heavy barrel proofer on #1 I call it a day and drink from my bottles but I felt like doing some more samples tonight.       

? 

Color : Re-fill sherry cask.     

Nose : Slightly savory, salty, toasted coconut chips & tobacco.       

Taste : Rasberries, citrus, sweet caramel, vanilla cream, green apples, mint, mocha, dark chocolate, smoked wood; a whole lot of subtle flavors that compliment each other very well.        

Finish : Tannic finish.       

?  

90-95 proof, refill sherry cask, slightly peated & 14-18 year in age. My guess would be a non-Islay 18 year clocking in at 86 proof and a very balanced OB. So Highland Park 18? Again, I can barely, absolutely barely taste the smoke in this...otherwise I would have guessed Glen-something.     

So what's the verdict /u/anagama? You had this labeled as #3.         



Dood.

You nailed it!   Very impressive.  I really enjoyed my bottle of HP 18.



Highland Park 18 year old 86 proof

good stuff, but I?ll stick with the 12 for the pricepoint and forget the 15 for me.

93/100



Highland Park 18 

The older brother of the 12. I got a bottle a few years back for under $100, though that?s just a fond memory now - and why /u/tintin777 was so helpful with the sample.

43% abv.

Nose - Fairly spice forward - black pepper and ginger especially - with some mild seaweed, smoke, honey, and toffee notes. Maybe some dark chocolate and tobacco too? This one needs time to open up/balance out. Still seems a bit muted with time. Sweet/oceany notes take a backseat to the spice notes with this one. 

Taste - Salted toffee, honey, vanilla, lemon, black pepper, ginger, light smoke. Very refined, well integrated and well balanced. Medium body. 

Finish - Lemon, brine, black pepper, light smoke, toffee, vanilla. Spice/seaside/citrus notes are most prominent here, with the sweetness providing a solid backbone. Lingers a good long while, in a way I can sit back and enjoy it after every sip.

This is really a nice integration of flavors. That said, it does it in a refined, gentlemanly sort of way, instead of having some characteristics that really jump out and make this memorable in the way that an Ardbeg or sherry bomb Glendronach would. I really like the finish on this one, and is the biggest thing that makes it a marginal improvement on the 12.

90/100



Yep, the 15 uses American Sherry refill casks. The 12 and 18 Spanish Sherry refill.

So the liquor store guy was wrong, no big surprise. 

So now I need to see what else in my inventory used Am casks vs Sp casks - and whether I like one over the other.

Also, HP uses no bourbon casks in spite of what you've (and I) have read or been told. 



Also, HP uses no bourbon casks in spite of what you've (and I) have read or been told. 

Source? That'd kind of surprise me, given how ubiquitous bourbon barrels are, and the fact that I've seen bourbon barrel matured HP IB's. I suppose they may fill some at the distillery for Famous Grouse or whatever, though.



Check out:

Enjoy...



HP12 is very good for the price but for x2.5 the price of the 12, the 18 is not worth it.

I'd re-buy 18 if it was priced $80 



At the aunt and uncle's place for Christmas brunch and her cousin put out his collection. I've had most of them before but had a chance to do quick reviews of a couple that I hadn't had yet. 

Appearance: Uncoloured but port cask influence is obvious

Nose: Apples, tobacco, red fruit, honey

Palate: Honey, oak, caramel, tobacco smoke, bitter fruit, not as sweet nose

Finish: medium and bitter

Score: 77

Nose nicer than taste. Too bitter

Appearance: looks coloured

Nose: Salty, honey sea, apples

Palate: Salty brine,  slight peat, light smoke, sweet peat , Heather very floral, well balanced, spicy, pepper, malty, chocolate

Finish: Long salty, chocolatey

Score: 88

Very nice. I'd consider buying this if it weren't $215 at the LCBO. Rivals Talisker 10 for what would be my salty island dram of choice. 



Yeah, big fan of the HP 18 ... but not that ridiculous price at the LCBO.

Thanks for the reviews.



Hi everyone,

u/Unclimbability hasn?t reviewed any Highland Park yet?! You don?t say? 

Well, were gonna correct that. Majorly. I?m going to review them all. From the 12 year old, right up to the 40 year old with one or two in between.

I?ve had 2 bottles of the 12, one of the 18 and the rest are from samples I bought, either from Master of Malt or a miniature pack they do.

?

First up we?ll do the 12-18.

?

Highland Park 18 43%

Colour: Dark Gold

Body: Medium

Nose: Complex. Nut- Walnut, damp wood, dunnage warehouse, wood polish, dark chocolate, strong coffee, leather, toffee, fudge and caramel. Coastal- Sea air and spray, small wisps of smoke- Campfire on the beach. Sweetness starts to appear- Lots of barley sugar, marzipan, almond, thick cream, vanilla, sweet syrupy honey, brown sugar, stewed fruit- Apple, apple pie, cherry, cocktail cherry, juicy orange and roasted chestnut.

After time- Ah, here comes the smoke. A heathery, woody, outdoorsy smoke.

Water: More sherried and sweet, more cocktail cherry, raisins soaked in apple brandy, driftwood.

Taste: Creamy arrival, then gradually coming back with spices and fruit. Sherried stewed fruit- Cherry, raisin, date, thick honey, malt, leather, toffee, building spice- Nutmeg and some heather smoke. Developing drying coffee, more malt, ash, tannins, sea salt, bitter orange and lime peel, dark chocolate. The oak is part of the drying development and carries it through really well.

Water: Less creamy arrival with more oak and tannins, toffee coffee, maybe more sweet oak, more heather. After time the chocolate and malt really take over.

Finish: Medium/Long length. Drying, lots of coffee with hints of smoke and a final sea salt hit!

A great whisky, takes time to open up and you are really rewarded if you keep this in your mouth for a full 18 seconds.

81/100

?

Thanks for reading! Next up is some much older HP for my 300th!!

Reviews #296-#298



u/Unclimbability hasn?t reviewed any Highland Park yet?! You don?t say? 

Ha, it's always surprising to me when someone with hundreds of reviews has never reviewed something basic. Good reviews, "coffee" is always my main impression of HP but I don't see that note in many others' reviews.



Haha Yeah, always get a lot of coffee with HP and Sherry.

I realised though, I have reviewed one: Dark Origins. Totally forgot!



Coming close to the big ole review number 150, and well, I'm trying to review as many of the samples I've traded for as possible.

This sample comes from /u/krisjoon, who helped me do a mega swap along with his bro. Great guy, trade with him.

Anyway, we'll be continuing my kick of Next Level malts with Highland Park 18. I thought it appropriate as I learned so much about Highland Park with my last week reviews, and wanted to see what the "one that is worth it" is all about.

What can I say about Highland Park that I didn't say last time? We'll, it's located on Orkney, along with Scapa. They have won multiple medals in international spirit ratings competitions, mostly due to the care and quality of their drams. 

Also the name. Could they have a more confusing name? Is it a Highland? Well no! It's an Island! It's named after an area called High Park. So why not name it High Park? Because fuck us, that's why. Don't want it getting mixed up with future Toronto parks that won't be created for another 100ish years.

Well, let's see if this confusingly named whisky tastes nice.

Price: $149.95

Region:

Abv: 43%

Colour: Dark Brown

Nose: Currant, smoke, sea salt, grapefruit, coal, chocolate, toffee

There's... well, more everything on this one over the younger (12 and 15) Highland Parks. It has this amazing sherry influence, sea influence, and beefy smoke that reaches up and pulls out your nose hairs.

I could nose this for awhile, it opens up into a nice sweet treat.

Taste: Caramel, smoke, strawberry, passion-fruit, salt, cumin, ginger

Gone is the tomato flavour that I usually associate with Highland park, replaced by more of the smoke influence and some deep, thick flavours.

Wait, did I just say deep thick flavours? That sounds like I'm really into penis. In my mouth. What I mean is a rich, dark flavour.

Now it just sounds like I have a preference in dicks.... Moving on...

Finish: Smoke, chocolate, butter, strawberry, ginger, vanilla milkshake, basil

Have I mentioned there's smoke in here yet? Because there's a nice amount of smoke flavour. Like it was waiting around in the others and it takes 18 years to coax it out. Also quite sweet and buttery, like a pie.

I do like pie.

Conclusion: I smoked a chocolate cheesecake about a year ago, and it turned out tasty as heck. This is like that, except if I had drizzled it in strawberry coulis. Which after tasting this, I should have. But there's always next time, as I didn't leave the recipe out in the rain.

This is sweet, has a little less earthy components than the younger drams, and has a lot more smoke than I was expecting. I'd say that regardless of cost, buy this over the 15, as it's really well made, well balanced, and tasty.

85/100




I smoked a chocolate cheesecake about a year ago, and it turned out tasty as heck. 

Wait, what? You put a chocolate cheesecake in a smoker? Or you rolled some up in a blunt and passed it around a circle with some friends?

The former actually sounds like it could be pretty tasty...



Thanks for the review! 

Silly question, but where exactly can I get some of those small bottles? I haven't seen them anywhere so far... I'm in Toronto, if that helps.
