Jura 10

The first in the trio, this is easily an unoffensive, middle of the road scotch. I was getting ready to hate it, but I guess I skew my scores so they are more evenly distributed, instead of love it / hate it. People here that didn't like it translate it to "hate it" pretty quickly, but I don't think it gets its dues. For a non-peated scotch this is just fine. I would even have considered it good if it didn't taste so watered down

Color: translucent copper (beer)

Nose: raisin, grape, vanilla, citrus, lavender, chocolate

Palate: (watery) dark brown sugar, orange, cloves

Finish: (long) raisin, citrus, heavily spiced, bit of salt brine

Rating: 3 Monocles | 65%

I like the Jura 10, unoffensive and its what eased me into liking scotch. A great noobie dram, imo.



Jura 10 Year Origin: Aged in ex-bourbon casks and bottled at 40%

Color: Bronze

Nose: Vegetal along with vanilla, oak, honey, brine, and light peat. 

Taste: Light, yet oily mouthfeel. Peat and bitter oak are the dominant flavors here. With just a hint of smoke. However, there's a metallic note that's ever prevelant. 

Finish: Short to medium in length. Hot and kind of funky. Mostly oak with peat and a hint of the vegetal note I picked up in the nose. The metallic taste is back as well.

There's really no saving grace for this dram. You might be able to make a (weak) argument for the nose, but the vegetal quality to it is off putting. The rest was plagued by bitterness and a metallic note. 

60/100

Jura 10 years old

So I thought having some Jura while watching an episode of The Wire, naively hopping this dram is going to be half as good as the show.

Region: Island.

ABV: 40% (CF).

Age: 10 years old.

Colour: Deep gold (CA), although pretty cloudy, I'd never guessed it had E150a.

Nose: Shy, honey, vanilla, bits of chocolate, nail polish, hints of sea.

Taste: Cheap sherry, wood, lemon, malt and cereals, and some young floral notes too.

Finish: A bit of alcohol burn, creamy, peach, pear, and then it?s gone.

Price: 30?, there is so much better stuff out there for this price, but if you like this dram.

I recently reviewed a Dalmore 15, which I didn't like so much, but I ended up wanting to try an IB expression, this hasn't happened with Jura. Nevertheless, I'll be reviewing the 16YO and Superstition, since I bought the samplepack.

54/100 - 30? can be much better spent.



Review #18

Hey all, Gaija here ! I'm back after a couple of months of studying and taking exams, which was no easy time as you may imagine. So now, back to enjoying a well-deserved dram from time to time. Today I chose the very first bottle I ever bought, which was initially meant as a gift to my parents back from a school trip in Scotland. I didn't know at that time that they actually both hated any form of whisky, so this ended up to be a boomerang gift somehow.

Jura 10 "Origin" 40%, ex-bourbon oak, both chill-filtered and coloured. 

Advertised as "light and delicate with a warming honey finish" ? let's check that !

Nose : well they didn't lie about the honey, even if we're not talking about the finish yet. Rather a heavy, acrid kind of honey, not a fruity one. Think lavender or chestnut honey, with a touch of dusty salted caramel as well. Then the rest emerges : a necklace of juicy, acidic, unripe fruits : we've got pears and red apples, redcurrants as well. A very clear note of blueberry-flavoured chewing-gum , the acidic, industrial taste of blueberry that makes you salivate. See? . More on this austere, sour side ? There you go : sour cookie dough, raw bagel, ginger, ? more and more leafy as well, ? and a growing nutty side now that you mention it ! Yup, walnuts all right. I can't say that I hate this nose, I really can't, but there's something about this industrial side that is interesting on one hand and incommodating on the other : old-style mustard, freshly printed magazine pages ? really ? Well, okay. I'm not against that dram so far.

Palate : ? the "so far" was important indeed. That nose was quite intriguing and characterful, making me want to discover an interesting palate ? no such thing to be found here, I'm afraid. The entrance is kind of ? void. I mean, it's nothing more than bitter water for the first two seconds. Then as you chew it, you'll maybe regret you did : sweaty clothes, cheap coffee, loads of bitter walnuts ? again, it doesn't lack a certain character, I'd even say it's a daring malt, but it just fails to deliver a solid picture. More of this sour - bitter side arrives with molasses, mustard again, even Brussels sprouts ? oh come on ! The whole is very dry as well : you'll get images of a wicker basket, cracked earth, or the sensation of biting a piece of cloth ? no need to say it's globally not-so-enjoyable anymore.  Sigh ?

Finish : surprisingly not that short and above the palate by a fair margin. Still very drying and, well, not very sexy, but it's rather evolving around the former fruitiness, with some notes of rhabarber and figs, even raspberries if you're indulgent. Faint whiffs of Coke, dry liquorice stick, damp newspapers, that cheap coffee again ? yeah, not an awesome finish neither huh ! Think coffee mixed with spinach juice. A daring malt, dude.

Comments : So frustrating. If the palate had developed the elements of the nose while giving them a bit more generosity, that would have been a very interesting and drinkable malt. Sad news is : it doesn't. It's just disjointed, un-harmonious and, well, poor. Still interesting though, and that's why I'm not giving up all hope on this distillery. At least it's not yet another vanilla-fudge oak-doped soup. Wouldn't buy it again, though.

Score : let's say 74/100.  

Hope you enjoyed, see you soon !



A double review since I got a pack of Jura minis.  For some reason, I didn?t make notes on the Superstition.  Probably because it was the last one of the night.  Scotch.

Jura 10

Nose - sweet, malt, hint of fruit (peach?)

Palate - malt, peppery, a little hot

Finish - short and spicy

Overall - I find this fairly plain, but not off-putting.  The nose makes promises that aren?t kept. 

82/100




Greetings /r/Scotch! The last time I was in the liquor store they had this sampler pack sitting up by the register and I couldn't resist seeing as though it was only $10! 

Jura "Origin," 10 years old, 43% ABV, ~$36/750ml Locally

This single malt has been quite enjoyable for what it is, I've been looking for a go-to inexpensive single malt and I think this gives Glenmorangie a run for it's money. This is fairly inexpensive and I would have no problem mixing this into a delicious scotch and soda! This is not as complex as I would like a scotch to be, and the astringency in the finish is indicative of a cheap scotch. Overall I enjoyed this scotch though! 



It's been a while since I've managed to write down a decent review, so here's three for being so patient!  This was given to me as a small gift, so I figured they had to go head to head!  

Jura 10 Origin  

I didn't find it horrible like some of the reviews I've seen since I wrote mine, but it wasn't anything to really write home about.  Tastes young, could use 3-4 more years easily, and is fairly boring.  




Hello again, scotchit! Thatguy here with part two (check out part 1 here) of the Dalmore/Jura tasting I attended last week. Just like the Dalmores, I'm not a huge fan of the Jura lineup, but we at least got to try the newsworthy Shackleton recreation at the end of the night. The whole evening was well worth the $20 entrance fee!

Jura 10 Year ? 40% alcohol by volume ? 750 ml

This is aged in 50% 1st fill bourbon casks and 50% 2nd fill bourbon casks.

A young introductory island malt. The 2nd fill casks used here contribute to a pretty light flavor overall.

SCORE: 82/100




Jura 10 Origin. 43%ABV

Color: Light gold

Nose: Immature & malty. Honey, lightly spiced (cinnamon mostly), & raisins.

Taste: Light body. More honey, heavily malted, oak and spice.

Finish: Heavy spice, warm and short.

Overall: This bottle is underwhelming at best. The nose through the finish is about as straightforward as it gets. It tastes underdeveloped and immature, but for the price, it?s not a bad dram. I got this on a whim and I?m sure I won?t have trouble drinking it, but I would not plan on purchasing another bottle.

Price: $40

Taste: 60/75

Value: 11/15

Uniqueness: 2/5

Would buy again: 2/5

Total: 75/100



I write my reviews in my google docs archive.  they are just the notes and score.  then I put those notes here in my simple format.  then I build on the notes here and copy/paste to scotchit/bourbonit.  

then most of my new reviews go into the scotchit archive.  some old ones I did I redid here and put those in the archive because I made them better but didn't want to repost on scotchit.  I think thats how people found this place, from the archive.



Duly noted.

That's how I stumbled here.

Any clue if RustyPipes is still trying to create an Archive for bourbonit?



Howdy folks! I'm slowly getting around to writing this shit down. I did two individual reviews about 2 days ago and have resolved to review everything I own before it's gone at some point this year. So here we go:

Jura 10, 43 % $45
Nose: Sweaty armpit, briney sea salt, moldy citrus
Taste: So much armpit, salty, grapefruit
Finish: bitter and short, burnt hair
Rating: 70/100
Final Thoughts: An interesting take on whisky. Worth a try, once



