Jura Superstition: This bottle is NAS, but according to the Jura website, is aged up to 21 years in ex-bourbon casks. Bottled at 43%

Color: Bronze (almost identical to Origin)

Nose: Light peat, smoke, salt, and a hint of iodine.

Taste: Thicker mouthfeel than the Origin, yet still on the light side. This is sweet, though an oaky spice keeps the palate from becoming unbalanced. A bit of a medicinal note shines through the peat that is present here.

Finish: Fairly short. Smoke and peat are the dominant notes. A hint of iodine as well. It's an interesting finish, there's no warmth or heat (the former being good IMO, the latter bad). It's pretty much over before it gets started.

This pour started off promising, but the finish was really a letdown: not much complexity and really quite short. The state minimum here is $56 and I suppose for the price, it's not terrible. However, I'd rather put that $56 toward a more expensive bottle of scotch or a really nice bourbon.

76/100

I was ready to write Jura off after trying Origin. However, Superstition was somewhat of a pleasant surprise, though the finish left a lot to be desired. I've heard some of the older, age-stated bottlings of Jura are quite good and while I wouldn't turn down a chance to sample them, I won't be actively pursuing them either.


Jura Superstition

When I think of peat from an island, I think of Talisker 10 and Laphroaig 10. Big bold flavors, varying of smoke, and sea salt. SEA salt. I stress this because if there is any salt taste it should be somewhat briney. It is made on an Island after all. How this ended up more iodine or kosher salt I fail to understand. The flavor also evaporated quickly, leaving the finish before its time.

Color: exactly the same

Nose: oak smoke, slightly peated, kosher salt, fudge

Palate: cereal, sour apple, warm paper, slightly burnt toast

Finish: (short) kosher salt, orange zest

Rating: 3 Monocles | 65%



Jura Superstition: $55.00 43%abv

Color: Red apples and honey

Nose: For the first five minutes rich caramel with a peat topping jostle for dominance.  However, with just a dash of water this dram settles nicely.  Honey is the cornerstone for the fresh apples, raisins, an occasional puff of dried grass, and feint nuttiness to come through.  The peat is noticeable and playfully dances with the other smells.  There seems to be divisions of smell in this whisky; depending on what angle you hold the glass a specific smell always comes though.  I can dig it!

Palate: Without water it has a great full mouth feel.  A dominant honey leads the way for salted caramel, and a sherry spice.  The nuts come through but I?m left wondering where is the peat? Water negatively changes the impact of this whisky from mysteriously full, to hesitant.  But I still want to take another sip, it?s just so sweet.

Finish:  It?s short but attractive.  There is a trail of peat down the throat.  I am picking up various spices (albeit with a quizzical look on my face) it?s not pepper cinnamon or all spice? Finally, dark chocolate on the tonsils.

81/100 I would definitely give the Superstition a try.  It is great to have in the collection because it bridges the peat and sherry gap very nicely.  I might even give this to someone who is new to scotch just to see what flavors they pick up/favor.  And the bottle is pretty neat



Jura Superstition (Island) 

43% Alc/Vol 

Nose: Honey; sea salt; peat; citrus. Pretty light compared to a lot of peated scotch I have tried. 

Mouth: Saltwater; berries; orange; the mouth is pretty thin which detracts from an otherwise tasty pour. 

Finish: Peppery. A little touch of honey. Surprisingly brief. 

Overall Thoughts: This left much to be desired. I'm not sure if it's the low proof or something else but this just doesn't do it for me. 

Rating: C+

Jura Superstition (NAS) ? 43% alcohol by volume ? 750 ml

Aged 13-21 years in American white oak, lightly peated @ 30-35 ppm

If you aren?t aware by now, I?m incredibly sensitive to peat. I feel like this makes my review and score biased, but I?ve decided to add it anyway. Maybe someone who doesn?t hate peat so much can give a better review of this one. Sorry :(

SCORE: 72/100

Mackinlay?s Rare Old Highland Malt ? 47.3% alcohol by volume (NCF) ? 750 ml

If you don?t know about this whisky, check out the story here.

This isn?t exactly my cup of tea, but I certainly appreciate the history. It?s pretty cool to get a glimpse of that scotch tasted like over 100 years ago.

SCORE: 85/100



Jura Superstition  

Enjoyable, a nice introduction to smoke and peat if you don't want to jump straight into Islay.  I enjoyed the sea salt and brineyness much better than the 10 and the flavors were better balanced.  Probably would have given it low-to-mid 80s if there had been any finish to speak of.  

Jura Superstition, 43%, sample courtesy of who? You? I think a secret santa sent it. I can?t find it. If it was you, speak up!
NOSE: sweaty pits, burnt hair, dark chocolate, fruit juice?
PALATE: dirty socks, bitter chalk, tree bark, grass
FINISH: Bitter and too long. The nose isn?t terrible. The taste is gross. Still not the worst ever, though.
FINAL THOUGHTS:  Blech. I don't know why i keep doing this to myself.
SCORE: 68/100



Age: NAS -
ABV: 43 %

Colour: Full Gold (Contains E-150)

Nose: Like in the Jura 16, I immediately get this Cooked Vegetables aroma. At least that's how I describe it. It could be Vegetative Sulphur I suppose. I'm not sure if, and if yes, how much Sherry Cask matured whisky was used in the Superstition. I only get weak Sherry notes, so probably not a high percentage. I also considered Phenolic aromas but then again I don't get very clear Medicinal tones such as Bandages or the like. It's a bit of a mystery to me I'm afraid. Sometimes it reminds me of very mature Blue veined Cheese! Over time, this aroma gets somewhat weaker and the Nose becomes more Earthy and Peaty in character though in a different way when compared to the peated whiskies produced at nearby Islay. In addition I find Hay, Oak, Toffee/Caramel, Butterscotch, Buttered Toast, Spices, Honey, Heather, Dried Fruits and Malt. There are very thin hints of Leather and Sweet Fresh Fruit as well. Think of Peach and Tangerine. 

Palate: A Combination of Sweet (Sugar, Honey, Marzipan), Spicy (White Pepper, Cloves, Aniseed) and Bitter (Herbs and Licorice). In addition some Cereals, Citrus, Mint and Hay. 

Finish: Short, Sweet and slightly Medicinal with some Peat, Spices, Honey, Ginger and a sprinkle of Salt.

I added a bit of Water and the dram gets more Cereals, Honey, Toffee, Peat and Wood on the Nose. The Nose benefits from a bit of Water but Palate and Finish are just watered down.

Rating: 78.5

Nose: 19.5  - Taste: 20 - Finish: 19.5  - Overall: 19.5

General Remarks: The Jura Superstition is NAS but is said to contain whiskies that aged respectively 7, 13 and 21 years. Around 13% of the Malt used is heavily peated. The name Superstition comes from an old ritual on Jura that dates back from Egyptian times. The Islanders believe that it brings good luck if you drink your dram of Jura in the correct manner by holding the bottle in such a way that the well-known Ankh cross in the centre touches the palm of your hand. The Ankh Cross is the Egyptian symbol for eternal life. Superstition sells at around 45 US Dollars per bottle.

Drinking Experience Neat: Average

Drinking Experience on the Rocks: Good

Conclusion: I do not usually drink Single Malts on the Rocks but I make an exception for the Superstition. It's quite okay that way. Neat however I do not find much pleasure in nosing and drinking this dram. The Nose is controlled by Vegetative aromas and on the Palate the Bitter elements like Herbs and Licorice spoil the show for me. This is my second Jura and I'm not very impressed I'm afraid. I have two more on the shelves, the 10 Years and the Prophecy. I'm an optimistic person by nature so I like to think I will enjoy them more. However, I am starting to believe that Jura's distillery character does not quite match my preferred flavour profile.



*piqued

(Sorry, I'm an annoying internet pedant.)



I had the Superstition on my short list of drams to try next.  That is in part due to where it sits on Texacer's malt map.  Your review makes me think it isn't placed in the right spot on the map.

Any thoughts?

Thanks!
