Jura 16 year

Price: $60

Proof: 86

Region: Islands

Color: Dark amber

Nose: Yeasty, fresh bread, very alcohol forward.

Palate: Vanilla and yams, grapefruit, lots of alcohol that subsides over time.  A bit more orange peel like the Superstition.  A touch of oak.

Finish: Short and disappointing like Danny DeVito's unsuccessful twin brother. 

Overall: Finally done with the Jura samples, thank God.

Score: 74/100, C



Jura 16 - 43%, $50 (review #37)

Total: 80/100 

Jura Superstition - 43%, $48 (review #38)

Total: 73/100 

Jura Prophecy - 46%, $60 (review #39)

Total: 75/100 

Ok. So, yes... the noses on these bottles. As the bottles were opened the night I sampled, I don't know if this goes away over time. But for fuck's sake do these bottles have weird (and potentially horrendous) noses when you first crack them. For the first time that I can remember saying it, but the thing I liked least about these whiskies were the noses. I'm a big fan of smelling a glass of whisky. I would never, in a million years do that with Jura. 

But even with the nose being full of stink the whisky always tasted reasonably good. Now, a whisky can taste dramatically different than the nose, but with the noses being as bad as some of these were, I was nothing short of surprised. They actually taste quite nice.

In short; Jura tastes pretty good and smells pretty bad. They're definitely unique, but nothing I will ever buy. If you must try one, I'd recommend the 16. This, of course, assumes you don't want to odd shock of the nose... in which case try Superstition. 

(And finally, for the record, the corks were in good shape. This isn't a matter of cork rot.)
Jura 16

While extremely similar to the 10, it finally gathers more of the flavor the 10 was probably too young to obtain. This is really what the 10 should be, and this 16 should be a little bolder, but it is still fairly good. The flavor is... bizarre. It is similar in bizarreness as the Laphroaig 18. Flavors and scents that I don't really understand, and in some cases, don't like, but overall very well blended. It makes for a good vacation from others.

Color: exactly the same

Nose: sea salt, kippery, toasted almonds, toffee, dandelion

Palate: oak, sour apple candy, grape jelly, honey, mint chocolate

Finish: (tapering) honey, corn chips

Rating: 4 Monocles | 80%



Review #41: Jura 16 Diurach?s Own

I had a dram at a friend?s house.

ABV 40% E150a, Chill filtered.

Colour: Burnished copper.

Nose: Smokey, raisins, grass, hay, cinnamon, maple syrup.

Very faint. Hard to pick up anything, but the syrup reveals itself the most.

Palate: Toffee.

That is all. Some spices like cinnamon take a back seat. But it?s just toffee really.

Finish: Medium length. Toffee and cookies

Overall: If you like toffee, go for it. Otherwise I would not recommend it. It?s the least complex of ?older? whiskies I?ve had.

Rating: 70/100. One dimensional and bland. The nose was very subdued and okay in the end, but the toffee is just too much.

This has not been a dram duel like /u/xpentakx does so well, but if I had to pick a winner it would definitely be the Bunnahabhain. Awesome dram and sexy bottle as well.



I quite like reading several together like this to compare whiskies. Nice reviews!

You're dutch, right? From what part of the country?



Jura 16 years old

Region: Island.

ABV: 40% (CF).

Age: 16 years, matured for 14 years in american white oak casks, and finally an extra maturation in oloroso sherry casks for 2 extra years.

Colour: According to Whisky Magazine it has a burnished colour (CA).

Nose: Dark fruits, dates, oak, the delicate peat turns into sea (stronger than in the 10YO) .

Taste: After some breathing it develops quite sweet, with more chocolate and oranges, however, some peat and salt remain there. You can find as well some peach.

Finish: Oak, more sugar, a bit spicy, and quite warm at the end.

Price: 43?.

Overall quite nice, but did not move me; however, it is much better than expected, so I am happily surprised :)

69/100 - Much better than the regular ten years old expression, the extra maturation helps rounding the deal.



Jura 16

Nose - citrus (orange-ish), sea salt

Palate - oak appears with the orange citrus and salt.  Slight peat?

Finish - the oak moves to the forefront

Overall - its decent.  I?d drink this if I lived on Jura, but I have plenty of other options.

84/100



Greetings! I quite like head to head reviews so I'm going to stick with them for the time being. I'm trying to bring my number of open bottles down to reasonable number so I've decided to try and kill off the bottles that have been open a while and that I'd never usually choose for a pour. Jura fits the bill! 

?

I love visiting the island of Jura, it's a beautiful place, the people are great and the small music festival they put on annually is always good fun. I've been lucky enough to make it over to Jura maybe 8 or 9 times over the past 15 years and I'll always recommend it for some wild camping or even just to climb the paps. 

?

The one downside of frequent visits is that friends and family assume I must like the whisky and the generous bastards then give me bottles as presents. And this is what we have today, two bottles I have received as gifts at some point over the past few years. 

?

Jura 16yo, 40%, relatively recent bottling, 2014ish

?

Comments: I remember this being the pick of the bunch when I did an OB tasting 5 or 6 years ago - the 10 must be dreadful...

Score 78/100 

?

Jura Superstition, 43%, it's an older bottling - probably from around 2009

?

Comments: Not too bad actually, it's marginally better than the 16 for my money. I'd be curious to know how this compares to a more recent bottling, not favourably would be my guess.

Score 80/100



Working my way through this 3 pack of reviews brings me to Jura 16. 

Jura, 16 years old, 43% ABV, $69.99/750ml locally in CT. 

The 16 year old expression from Jura is night and day different from the 10 year old. It's not necessarily much better, just vary different. This drinks more like an upper shelf scotch than the 10 which had some astringency to it. It'd like to have more of this than the 50ml that I bought, but I think it's $70 price point for a full bottle is going to be too much for me right now. If it were ~$50-$55 I'd be buying another bottle. 



Relatively new to making tasting notes, so please forgive a newbie's first foray. 

This was bought as a recommendation from a Scottish friend who brought it over to Germany for me and as such has formed the focal point over many a late night, deep whisky-fuelled discussions. I have a soft spot for it and thought I'd offer to Scotchit my first thoughts while enjoying it for the umpteenth time. Constructive critiques more than welcome.

Isle of Jura, ABV 40%, 16 years, chill filtered.

Colour: Deep amber honey

Nose: Introduces a sweet scent with an almost biting 'boot polish' aroma following with hints of citrus fruits, honey and perhaps fresh grass.

Palate: Very mellow, sweet with peat and citrus tones. Nice delicate, satisfying just shy of oily mouth-feel. 

Finish: Truly smooth swallow, very little burn but warm, rich and well balanced. Slightly notable smoky after-taste.



80 proof? Boooo. Cop out!

Good review. How much was it? Would you buy it again?



Out of curiosity, does it have the same weird characteristic of the 12 year, where every sip seems to highlight different notes?

In the same vein, a reviewer somewhere once noted the 12 year old as a "[salty] mix of Windex? and honey". Might the 16 follow in its footsteps?

Cheers,

The Sab



That isn't a review, it's an image.

Edit: Downvotes? Seriously? Why post a review as an image instead of a self post? 



Hello again, scotchit! Thatguy here with part two (check out part 1 here) of the Dalmore/Jura tasting I attended last week. Just like the Dalmores, I'm not a huge fan of the Jura lineup, but we at least got to try the newsworthy Shackleton recreation at the end of the night. The whole evening was well worth the $20 entrance fee!

