Review #9

ABV: 46%

Price: $55

Distiller: Kilchoman

Non-chill filtered

Natural Color

"Machir Bay 2013 is a vatting of 4 and 5 year old ex-bourbon casks, with the 4 year casks being finished in Oloroso sherry butts for 4 weeks prior to bottling."

Eye: 
Pale gold

Nose:
Soft and inviting I could nose this one for hours. Big vanilla, peat, and malt notes swirl about with some green apples, light fruit and a hint of charcoal. I can't get enough of it.

Taste:
Love it. The peat comes in a bit heavier on the palate, but not as heavy as a Laphroaig or Lagavulin, and is accompanied by some honey, malt and vanilla. The light fruit crisps up and becomes a bit more tropical bringing with it some notes of salt water taffy and grass. There is a rich sweetness that rides under the palate creating a great underpinning for the rest of the flavors.

Feel:
46% alcohol and 100% drinkable. Smooth and oily it has a great texture throughout.

Finish:
Pleasantly long sweet finish of smoke and malt that slowly becomes more wooden as it fades.

Score:
94/100

Overall:
This whisky is damn tasty. It works on every level, is a treat for all the senses and has quickly become one of my favorite sipping whiskies. It shows a remarkable amount of depth and complexity despite it's relative youth, but it also shows great restraint with layers of light flavors and peat working together. It's hard to get more balanced than this and handily displays the skill and care taken when crafting this whisky. I highly recommend you give this one a try.

http://imgur.com/Y5EHN5t



ABV: 46%

Price: $55

Distiller: Kilchoman

"Bottled once a year, each release contains more mature casks allowing Kilchoman fans to follow the development of the unique Kilchoman malt as it matures."

Eye: 
Pale honey

Nose:
Crisp and full it has a truly wonderful aroma of pears, honey, malt, apples and vanilla frosting. Floral notes swim around with some caramel and a light peat that seems to fade in and out a bit.

Taste:
The peat may fade in and out a bit on the nose, but it's right upfront on the palate and accompanied by some malt, vanilla, orchard fruit and 'Nilla wafers. Laying under these layers are notes of salt and soft grains.

Feel:
Like all Kilchoman's it has a great feel to it that is only enhanced by the fantastic balance in aroma and flavor.

Finish:
Malt, peat, vanilla, citrus, ash and brine all hang out for quite a long time.

Score:
NA - Had this at a Kilchoman hosted SoCal Whiskey Club tasting and didn't get to spend enough time to feel confident in a rating

Overall:
I enjoy this whisky immensely. The combination of fruit, malt, peat, vanilla and honey make this a truly tremendous whisky that is 100% deserving of all the praise it's received recently. I enjoyed it immensely and not that it truly matters, but I don't think I would rate the 2013 Machir Bay any higher than I did the 2012 (94). Other than some light salty notes in the 2013 there isn't a huge difference difference between the the two vintages and in the end both are equally delicious.



Greetings Scotchiteers! Today I have the standard offering of a distillery that I love very, very much. It's the youngest Islay distillery in operation and the first founded there for over 100 years. No prizes for guessing that it's Kilchoman.

This is the 2013 release of Machir Bay, which is 4 and 5 year old ex-bourbon casks, with the 4 year old whisky having been finished for a month in a sherry cask. Does its age hinder it? Is Kilchoman overrated? In short, is this a waste of your money? (Hint: No.)

Kilchoman Machir Bay (2013)
Islay, 46% ABV, NCF, no E150, ?55 for 700ml

Nose: Immediate earthy peat and musty oak. A medicinal bite. Salty sea air and dustiness. A background of lemons and seaweed. Dirt and earth. Peated malt and charcoal. 

For a 4-5 year old whisky, this is intensely complex. It's earthy and coastal and, oddly enough, smells like an old Laphroaig. If Laphroaig is a roaring campfire, this is the dying embers and charcoals. This nose is incredibly refined; confident, even. 

Taste: Oily mouthfeel. Earthy and musty. Peat smoke and charcoal. Iodine and black pepper. Lemonade and vanilla. Peated malt sourness and salt. Cured smoked ham. A touch of minerals. Summer rain. 

Much livelier than the nose, but retains that sort of earthiness that made the nose so great. A touch more sweetness here in the form of sweet lemons, but the peat, iodine and salt are still the main attraction. Here's where the youth shows, but it doesn't slow it down by much.

Finish: Medium-long. Light alcohol burn. Peat and smoke. Musty oak and a tiny hint of oaky bitterness. Citrus and pepper. Spices (cumin? ginger?). Sea water. Slight sour yeast.

As with many Islays, the true punch of smokiness comes on the finish. Lasts a good long while, burns a touch too much but I imagine that will subside with some more age. More traditional than the palate, in line with what I'd expect from a Caol Ila.

Summary: Kilchoman is so good, you guys! Even this, which I think is one of their weakest expressions, is easily better than Caol Ila 12 and Ardbeg 10. It's different, certainly, and a large part of that I attribute to Kilchoman's spirit being so damn good coming off the still. Age is a bonus, here.

This is a very solid dram. I hope Kilchoman has the balls to stay independent, because they're going to be ridiculously popular when people figure out what's going on, and it'd be a shame if Beam/Pernod/Diageo came in and ruined it. 

Score: 89/100
Ace.



Agree with all this and a great review. More than being worried about a Beam/Pernod/Diageo takeover (and lets face it, one of them if not all three will at least have Kilchoman on their radar...) I'm more concerned that they may have reached a peak in their quality. The reasoning behind this is a few things: their younger/newer offerings of 5, 6 and soon 7yo bottles are very very good. It's not uncommon for Islays to be at their absolute best at younger ages: just look at the difference between Laga 16 & 12. Or the younger/newer Bruich's, or the coveted 'young' series releases a few years back from Ardbeg, or Quarter Cask Laph...

I have no doubt the Kilchoman 10/12 etc will be a quality dram, but we may look back on the Machir Bay, Inaugural, 100% Islay releases as the golden years. At that point, Remy will step in, buy it out, do away with all age statements, double output, and yada yada here we go again.

PS: I should say also that I'm a massive Kilchoman supporter and love what they are producing. I've tried a few of their releases and have finished my Machir Bay just recently.



Perhaps they will, but if they realize their malt peaks young (which I don't believe), the current distillers would notice and just keep releasing at this age. 

At least, I think they would.

QC is overrated and the young Ardbegs are all collector's items. Lagavulin 12 is CS and all bourbon cask. Bruichladdich I know little about.



At least it just seems like Islay malts do excel at younger ages, hence why many of the distilleries have much more desirable (aka collectable) releases in the younger bracket. Even Caol Ila have a great 12, incredible 18, but any older than that and they lose their mojo and become liquid woodchips.

QC is overrated and the young Ardbegs are all collector's items.

QC is pretty good for the price, and the young Ardbegs are insanely good: see Supernova/Renaissance/Oogie.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  I've only had a couple Kilchomans so far and so far they are a great distillery doing things right.  I hope they keep on keeping-on for a long time, I look forward to their future.  heres Kilchoman Machir Bay 46%

that 46% packs a nifty punch.  The distillery is still relatively new but some other Islay distilleries should take notice to how they're doing things right.  Seriously, if you're an Islay smoke/peat fan, pick up some current releases, theyre getting better all the time.

92/100

Kilchoman Sherry Cask 5 year - 93/100

Kilchoman 5 year single cask - 90/100

Kilchoman Summer release 2010 - 89/100



Happy New Year Scotchit! Here's my review of what I was sipping on New Year's Eve:

Kilchoman Machir Bay 2012

Islay, 46%

color: pale straw (natural color)

nose: peat smoke, sweet vanilla, carrot cake, hints of aromatic tobacco, phenolic sea notes, licorice, caramel

taste: peat smoke, rosewater, sweet vanilla, tropical fruits, bananas, malt, toffee, hints of sulphur

finish: long and warm

Intense peat and vanilla, but very well integrated and layered with fruity and sweet notes. Looking forward to the first 10 yo coming next year.

89/100



Nice review,

I am thinking about buying one of their expressions, but I was thinking about the 100% Islay, did you have this one?

How would you compare Kilchoman with the other Islay Distilleries?

Thanks!!! 



Just got a bottle for a friend's family occasion and had some. 

Nose: Very earthy peat, mineral salts, a bit of cereal notes, white wine, (smoked) apples. 

Palate: Deep earthy notes, iodine, mineral salts and more delicious thick peat. And as a friend who doesn't like peated whiskies said: tastes like a bonfire that's just been pissed on. 

Finish: Really long, remarkably so. Smoke and peat and some mild salts, still tasting it 20 min later. 

Rating -  86/100

I didn't get the hotness of a young spirit on this at all. It was all peat and it was wonderful. Looking forward to seeing where this distillery goes. 



Kilchoman is the newest Islay distillery, founded in 2005, more than 120 years since the last distillery that was founded there (which I think was Bruichladdich, in 1881). They are still independently owned, though, unlike Bruichladdich. This is their base expression, which is a vatting of 4 and 5 yo whisky from "fresh bourbon barrels", w/the 4 yo finished in oloroso butts for 4 weeks. 

46% abv. Non chillfiltered, no coloring added.

Nose - Smoke and lots of it, ashes, big dose of vanilla/vanilla icing, almonds, ginger, poblano peppers. Nice, but not a ton of complexity here. 

Taste - Ashes, tar, vanilla, honey, pepper, a bit of citrus. 

Finish - A bit of clove and pepper, with some lemon and vanilla. 

This is solid stuff, but unspectacular. The sherry doesn't really make its presence felt a whole lot. I can't help but wonder what a few more years in the barrel would do for this. I do enjoy this, and appreciate the 46%/nonchillfiltered/natural color, and I think anyone else who enjoys peaty whisky would, as I would put it on par with some of the other base Islay expressions, e.g., Laphroaig 10 or Ardbeg 10, although I think I would put this just slightly behind those two. Worth checking out, though, if you're an Islay fan.

86/100



This is solid stuff, but unspectacular.

This is exactly how i feel about it. It shows a lot of promise, but it just isn't there yet. Great review, by the way.



I've been saving up a few sample bottles of Kilchoman whiskies for quite a while now, and wanted to get a bigger set before reviewing and posting. BUT since I need to empty out some bottles, and 2 of these were half empty from little sampling nips I'd taken, I figured they were low hanging fruit to finish off. plus, I'm going to be visiting the distillery this summer, so I want to have properly analysed a few of the whiskies before going! I'm excited to try these, as their reputation is great and I love peaty Islays. they've all come from swaps with central Canadians, from Manitoba, Quebec and Ontario respectively.

the first one on the list is the Machir Bay. I received this sample from /u/PACitizen back in swap #4 about a year ago! sorry it took so long to review it!

Appearance: pale straw, uncoloured, coats the glass.

Nose: big peat punch, lots of oak and vanilla, salty sea air, montreal smoked meat. Some idodine notes. Diesel fuel. Eggnog!

Taste: heavy peatiness, earthy and boggy, tons of smoke and ash, iodine. Oily and thick. Charcoal bbq, burnt bacon.

Finish: long, smoky, ashy and peaty. 

Score: 89/100

really nice. I think it's got less going on than some other peat bombs I love like Laphroaig QC or Ardbeg 10, but for a young Islay, it's fantastic. Looking forward to seeing how the others compare. 

this dram, I got more recently from /u/oliviervdv in swap #16  8 months ago. I've actually only reviewed 1 of the 4 drams he sent me so far, and he had asked me to let him know what i think when i post them... hopefully he's still interested in my opinions!

Appearance: similarly light and pale. Uncoloured, as I like it!

Nose: peat is present but much less in your face than with the Machir Bay. The smoke is subtle and accompanied by dried berries, almonds, raisins, figs, some red berries? has a nice briney character still too.

Taste: some peat, lots of spiciness - nutmeg, cinnamon, pepper, sea salt. Smoked meat. Sherry influence is there, but less obvious than on the nose. Berries and dried fruit mostly. Oily and warm. 

Finish: medium length, with smoke and spice. 

Score: 88/100

this is quite tasty, but shows its age. A few more years and it could be fantastic. 

and last, but certainly not least, is the dram I received first. Literally, I got this from /u/TOModera way back in swap#1! Which was probably almost 2 years ago now. . I am particularly appreciative that he shared this with me, given it is one of only 17 whiskies he has given a score 90+.  let's see if it wows me as much as it wow'd drunk /u/TOModera in Scotland. 

Appearance: beautifully uncoloured. Possibly lighter than the other 2. thick legs forever on the glass.. Seriously tried to take a picture but my phone camera isn't good enough.

Nose: oak, vanilla, caramel, peat, iodine, candy apple, salty air, smoked meat, lemon juice. Came back to the nose after a teaspoon of water and the fruit is more pronounced, as is the iodine and  meatiness.

Taste: big kick of smoke and peat. Quite unlike the nose actually. Oily and rich mouthfeel. Tons of woodiness and oak influence. Vanilla, toffee, nuts and caramel. Some fruitiness, but not as much as the nose suggested there would be. Adding a teaspoon of water to see if I can coax them out. smoked meat jumps out like a mofo after adding some water. bacon and  bbq'd ribs. lemony citrus zest, saltines, blackberries, apples, pears. spicy too. 

Finish: long, very warm, smoky and sweetness.

Score: 92/100

damn this was good. Just a ton of flavours and surprisingly well put together for only 5 years old. It's hot as you'd expect, but the 59.6% carries a lot of flavour with it. I will definitely be asking to try another single cask  when I'm at the distillery, or at a bar in edinburgh, or both :P

that was an awesome set of drams. I'm almost as excited to visit Kilchoman now as I am to visit Bruichladdich, Laphroaig and Arran. 

Previous Kilchoman Reviews

Stats

Scotch reviews #136-138. average score: 82.4

Islay Reviews #30-32. average score: 87.9

whisky network reviews #207-209. network average: 81.5



I missed the Kilchoman 5 single cask. Oh well, I have a few others to make up for it.

Glad you enjoyed it all!



Glad you liked it!

It's difficult to be disappointed by a Kilchoman whisky.

They're young, but they're good!



really nice. I think it's got less going on than some other peat bombs

Interesting, I've never considered the Machir Bay to be a peat bomb.  It's absolutely one of my favorites but I find it to be closer to a Caol Ila than an Ardbeg or a Laphroiag.  I'd love to get my hands on another offering from them but my local only carries the Machir Bay and I can't have liquor delivered in my state. 



Hello again Scotchit,

It's going to be a long one by the way guys, I was pretty much at Bruichladdich till they closed.

Waking up for the last day on Islay I had a sense of foreboding. We would have to leave this wonderful place soon and plunge back to reality, work and stress. Back to everyday life.

So I really wanted to make the most of it. I wanted to taste some epic whisky and spend a load of my money of stuff I wouldn't be able to get anywhere else. 

Armed with a plan we drove up to Kilchoman. The tour was really good, it's all close together and small scale but they do everything, barley to bottle. The barley that they produce on site is used for the 100% Islay and everything else is produced from malt bought from Port Ellen.

First up was the maltings but they weren't using them at the time. Then we went over to the mash tun which is also in the still room, it's a tiny place and also popped into the fermentation room quickly. Steel washbacks (it's quite a modern distillery after all) with very long fermentation time that produces a fruitier wash. We couldn't stay in there for too long because the batches were right at the end of the fermentation and the CO2 levels were very high. Back out to the stills. They're really small. Tiny in fact. The wash still only holds just over 3200L and the spirit still even less. We were then shown the tiny bottling hall and went back to the visitors centre for our tasters. Machir Bay 2015 and 100% Islay.

Kilchoman Machir Bay 2015 46%

Colour: Light Gold

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Creamy, fruity and earthy. Quite Autumnal if that makes sense, wet leaves, damp earth, pear drops, apple.

Taste: Fruity arrival, smoky mineral development with some lime.

Finish: Medium/Long length. Earthy lime citrus.

Notes: 5 year old, some 6. 90% Bourbon, 10% Sherry according to the guide. I've had a bottle of 2014 and I think I preferred it to this, this is more mineral I thought.

74/100

The vision for Kilchoman was always to produce a whisky that was completely made on Islay, barley to bottle. So here it is:

Kilchoman 100% Islay 50%

Colour: Light Gold

Body: Medium

Nose: Green oak notes, creamy, lots of citrus- Lemon, lime, melon, green malt, a little fresh smoke. Vanilla and pastry.

Taste: Fresh citrus- Lime, some lemon, lemon meringue, creamy and malty, fresh smoke. Sour development with melon and vanilla.

Finish: Long length. Sour and smoky, very fresh but some earthiness.

Notes: 5 and 6 year old from Bourbon barrels. Really good stuff, worth supporting.

80/100




Hi all. Originally I had planned to not do some reviews for awhile. However my buddy had never been to a pub we found called Feather`s in Toronto that has a lot of Scotches. And by a lot, I mean over 400 different drams. And since they have a selection that beats the LCBO, how could I not review two new drams I can only get at Feather's? Anything less would cause my frugal mother to disown me.

I started off with Kilchoman Machir Bay, as I had (incorrectly) believed that it wouldn't have the much of a peaty flavour... Spoiler: I was wrong. Extra Spoiler: REALLY wrong.

Kilchoman is youngest Islay in that they started production in June 2005. It's the oldest in that it was built 124 years ago. Confused yet? Imagine how I felt when I ordered it.

Abv: 46%

Region: Islay

Price: N/A. (Not available at the LCBO)

Colour: One drop of yellow food colouring in water

Nose: Peat, charcoal, sea salt, chilies

Very light. I understand that Kilchoman is quite young, and the Machir Bay is a mixture of 3, 4, and 5 year, and thus the main thing I can smell is smoke, and it takes quite awhile to really get anything other than "peat" out of the nose. It was surprising, as I wasn't actually expecting peat, but also because I (incorrectly) believed that a young Islay would have less peat, where was more so strong yet simplistic.

Here's the life lesson people: Don't assume a flavour based on your memory/preconceived notions, especially when you've been drinking.... granted if you need to learn that from my reviews, it may be time to reassess your life.

Taste: Grass, peat, lemon, sea salt, light strawberry, soap gum, chocolate

The initial grass and peat flavours follow suit with the nose, with the other flavours hidden beneath. At first I was worried that my attention was off as I was doing a tasting at a bar, or perhaps my buddy's Glen Scotia 8 nose was throwing me off, or perhaps the flower on the table and the wonderful pot roast around me was the cause. After awhile I was able to dig some other flavours out, and hope that older versions step up their game up. That being said, it's still a powerfully peaty dram for being made up of so many young Scotches.

Finish: Smoke, peach, little floral, tangy dirty earthworms, bacon, BBQ sauce

The earthworm was new. Don't think of it as bad, rather as a good mixture of meat and earthiness. Seriously, it's tasty. Or to ramble, think of it as a texture close to double smoked bacon (not fried) with an earthiness added to it.

Conclusion: I hope you've enjoyed my Magic School Bus tasting ("Take chances, make mistakes, get messy!"). This Scotch is a manly version of Secret Garden, like that episode of Community, only with MUCH more fire, and a lot less racism. 

Okay, enough pop culture references. I think this is a great Scotch to try, as it's a young Islay. If you are going to try a young Scotch, this would be the one to try. Don't expect anything beyond peat, don't expect too much complexity, just enjoy the camp fire.

76/100



Thank you for the review!

I will have to check out Feather's when I am in Toronto this year (probably October).
