Happy Whisky Wednesday everyone. After all the Diageo-fied fun of yesterday I am going to review another whisky from an independent distillery. It?s Kilchoman?s sherry matured Loch Gorm. My bottle was distilled is 2007 and bottled in 2013 which makes it (counting on fingers) 6 years old. As mentioned in my previous review, Kilchoman?s whiskies are still young but they are producing some serious quality. This one is 46%, NCF, natural color. Now the notes.

Nose: jammy red fruits and a blast of peat like a can of freshly opened tennis balls

Taste: soft peat, bitter herbs, lemon rind, fresh strawberry

Finish: medium length, a nice lingering sweet-bitterness

Overall: 86/100.  With this whisky Kilchoman shows off the versatility of its spirit by aging it exclusively in sherry casks and releasing it at a relatively young age. Its youth is apparent across the board but not off-putting or distracting. Don?t dive in expecting the depth or size of Uigeadail but if you are a fan of the sherry/peat combo as I am this whisky will not disappoint. 



In the few years I've been into scotch to such a level that I could call myself a fanatic, never have a come across the tasting note

a can of freshly opened tennis balls

Bravo Sir, your nose is so advanced that it has started reaching into the sports world.



Hello Scotchit, Seienshin here with a review of Islay?s youngest distillery. I have been watching them closely and frankly, everything they produce is good. This is the second edition of the sherrycask matured Loch Gorm expression.

Review #20: Kilchoman Loch Gorm 2014. Distilled in 2009.

ABV 46%. ?69 for 70cl.

Color: Nice amber.

Nose: Rich. Soft peat, pepper, leather, wet hay in a stable, sweet dark fruits.

Palate: Good mouthfeel, nice and thick. Sweet peat. Fruity and salty. I can almost taste the farm it was produced in, in a nice way. Dried fruits from the sherry influence.

Finish: Pleasant and long. The peppery notes last really long and really take the driver?s seat as opposed to most of the time I experience that peat takes most of the finish.

Overall: It?s a bit weaker than what I prefer, but it is a solid whisky. I am a big fan of what Kilchoman does. I support the fact that they do everything themselves and don?t just order peated barley from the mainland. If you are looking into Kilchoman for the first time I recommend you to get a single bourbon cask, but if you want to explore further, definitely pick this up.

Rating: 89/100. Solid subtly sherried whisky.



Hello Scotchit, SeienShin here! As you probably all know, I'm a big Kilchoman fanboy, and with good reason. They keep things as traditional as they possibly can while never colouring or chill filtering their malts. They even release single cask bottlings at fair prices costing about as much as their original cask strength.

But that's not why were here today. Kilchoman released the Sanaig last month. And it is about the same price as the Machir Bay and therefore a lot cheaper than Loch Gorm. Looks flashy with the purple label and all. The colour of the whisky is nice as well, but is it any good? First I will get to post a review of the 2015 Machir Bay and Loch Gorm, to see how they all compare, before we get to the Sanaig. Let's find out!

Next up we have Loch Gorm 2015, their sherry finished expression. Looks very cool with the black label and box design

Review #44: Kilchoman Loch Gorm 2015, ex-bourbon matured for 5 years and then finished in Oloroso sherry butts (please feel free to correct me if I'm wrong)

?72.50 for 70cl.

ABV 46%. NCF, Natural Colour.

I have already posted a review of the 2014 Loch Gorm, but this is the 2015 and my palate may have changed: here we go:

Colour: Light brownish. Not as dark as you would expect from a sherry finished malt, but that could be because they don't finish it for very long.

Nose: Earthy peat, salty sea air, wet rocks, poached pears, plums, raisins but a little bit in the back as it is very lightly sherried.

Like the Machir Bay this is a very nice nose, with some extra sherry notes the 20% in the Machir Bay didn't provide somehow.

Palate: Nice oily mouthfeel. Salty, earthy peat, light sherry, peardrops, citrus peels, smoked oak, slightly bitter. Roasted almonds.

Much less in your face than the Machir Bay and I'm not sure if I like that. It's a nice malt, but if anything I would rate this lower rather than higher.

Finish: Medium long. Smoke lingers. Fruity and spicy, slightly bitter finish. The roasted almonds are more apparent in the finish.

Overall: This is by no means a bad whisky, but I feel like this is a step down from the Machir Bay rather than a step up. At roughly 150% of the cost I just cannot justify it. If it were the same price it would be a nice change of pace.

Rating: 85/100. Still a nice malt, but it lacks the major step up from the Machir Bay I would expect at the price. If the Machir Bay didn't exist I would still jump on this, therefore still worth 85 points to me.

Alright, now we have those two out of the way, let's get to the malt we're all so curious about. Is it any good? Is it gimmicky? Or is it just another stellar malt by Kilchoman? Let's see!




I was sceptical as well. Mostly because one website described it as: a sweeter Machir Bay for the French market. I guess you have to second guess everything you read because I haven't seen any confirmation about that French market and it is much, much more than a sweeter Machir Bay. 

Edit: the source is www.drankdozijn.nl
They have been full of shit in some of their descriptions in the past and I was wrong to assume something they wrote. I do understand that my review is only an opinion as well though. 



I love me some Kilchoman too! Unfortunately I only get to buy what the local store chain gets, so I have Machir Bay 2014 and 100% Islay 4th edition at the moment.

Whatever the next release we get is I will probably get it, they make some quality juice in my opinion.



I WIN!!!

This is from my 224th review, tasted in a  blind tasting competition, I guessed Ledaig 10 but it was really a shot in the dark.

This is the 10th whisky that came up in the Tapuz Forum blind tasting competition and another one I've tried before (never made notes though) and got completely wrong. I decided to just send in the very first whisky that came into my head as my guess. The first whisky was Ledaig 10 so that didn't work so well, at least I got some points for ABV.

This is from Kilchoman, one of the newest distilleries on Islay (and the newest up until very recently), founded in 2005 right at the start of the current whisky boom (good timing because who knows if the distilleries just starting out now will have good stuff ready by the time the bubble bursts). 

Loch Gorm is sherry matured spirit, aged to around 5 years. While the bottle doesn't carry a bold age statement, the years of distillation and bottling are on there and kudos to Kilchoman for that. This distillery's stuff is a fine example of how whisky doesn't need to be super aged to be good.  

Aged 5 years. 46%ABV. Matured in fresh Oloroso butts. No colourants added and non-chill filtered.

Nose: Ash. Mineral peat. Iodine. Something else in the back, not sure what. Gunpowder sherry. Aggressive nose but not high ABV. Salt. Tear gas. Lemon peel. Charred fruits.

Palate: Ashy. Mineral peat. Salt. Charred wood. Tar. Pine sap. 

Finish: Long. Oil smoke. Tar. Coal dust. Bitter wood and some dark cough syrup.

Rating: 87

This whisky had this oil smoke and farmy note that I usually associate with Ledaig, Kilchoman or a young Laphroaig. But Ledaig came first into my head so that was my guess. I really did not pick up on the sherry here, even if I had guessed Kilchoman I would not have thought it was the Loch Gorm, which is odd because when I tried it before and knew what I was drinking I did pick up the sherry. Just goes to show how much we rely on external information when drinking whisky. Although in hindsight I should have at least suspected some sherry influence from my notes (Charred fruits, cough syrup). Still a fantastic dram, recommended for the hardcore peat heads out there. 

EDIT: added repost content for enrichment



Repost from before:

Call me /u/TOModera.

We all have our white whales. Yes, I said whales. Because it's whisky, not a giant marine mammal that has grown freakishly large and has a pigment mutation. Seriously people, you're going to have lots of whales.

Some of them won't be whisky.

Anyway, as I was saying, we all have white whales. Like Moby Dick. Yeah, the book.

One of mine, oddly enough, wasn't even that rare. It was Kilchoman Loch Gorm. Why this dram? Well, because I had attempted to swap for it multiple times.

The first time, the swapper wasn't able to complete the trade.

The second time, I ran out of bottles and had to cancel.

The third time, they weren't able to ship to Canada.

The fourth time I made the trade, however it started in the Central US and then went to Miami, and then to Canada.

I think it's fair to call this one of my White Whales.

So last week, for the first time, I had the chance to sit down and finally try the dram that I had hunted for, bought a ship named Pequod, lived in Nantucket, and shared a bed with a tattooed bloke named Queequeg. None of that helped me review the dram, oddly enough.

Kilchoman Loch Gorm is fully matured in Oloroso Sherry butts for 5 years, and named after a peaty loch near the distillery.

Let's see if I ended up at sea with nothing to show for it.

Region: Islay

Price:$148.95 (CAD) at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: Light Brown

Nose: Black cherry, flowers, licorice, sea salt, lemonade, bacon, current, dates

Not as bully and full of peat as Kilchoman's other drams, this has more of the sherry influence in the start. However the overt peat notes slowly come up, and eventually take over most of the nose, leaving only some dark fruit notes to linger.

Yeah, I gotta harpoon a bottle of this dram for the nose alone.

Taste: Nutmeg, ginger, cinnamon, sour cherry, spicy beef, mineral water, smoke

Very, very spicy. Like, proper Xmas spicy, or a really good pumpkin pie spicy, or going down on a woman in Fall spicy, but only if she has Uggs and really likes Starbucks.

There's also a mineral note, and eventually a smoky note. The age is showing here a tad, as the flavours are rolling around a lot.

Finish: Peat, peach, raspberry, mushroom, apricot, Moroccan spices, fake banana, orange rind, vanilla

Moderate finish, longer than the 100% Islay or the Machir Bay. There's a lot of fruit, yet the typical earthy Kilchoman finish is evident here.

To be serious, I'm glad they used Oloroso on this dram rather than a more earthy sherry, as the earthier sherry finish would have ruined this finish. Love the apricot and spices, tastes like a nice Tangine.

Conclusion: Overall a nice dram. It hits well above it's age and Abv, has a nice nose, great taste, and fun, unique finish. I could have gone for a little more complexity, and eventually the sherry on the nose disappears into the fog.

I think you can do a lot worse than this one, and I want a bottle after having this dram.

And maybe sell the boat I bought... what was I thinking?

83/100



Islay, 46%

Thanks /u/jleese for the sample. Distilled in 2009, fully matured in Oloroso Sherry butts, bottled in 2014, non chill-filtered.

color: matt gold (natural color)

nose: salt, sulphur, peat, hints of cinnamon and lime

taste: almonds, peat, vanilla, hints of soap and raisins

finish: ok

Dominant sulphur on the nose, not much else. Very soft and mild on the palate for an Islay. Pleasant finish.

76/100



Review #20: Kilchoman Loch Gorm

I love Islay whiskies, and Kilchoman was the last distillery I tried -- this bottle was my first taste. I had never been able to find any before and when I saw 3 expressions I chose this one, because the general consensus here seems to be that Loch Gorm is better than 100% Islay and Machir Bay. Here goes.

$109.99 / 750 ml / 46% / 5 Years / NCF and NCA

Color: Pale straw

Nose: This is intense. Reminds me of Bowmore initially. I get a huge nostril-worth of raw peat, followed by rubber and shoe polish, mellowing out into semi-sweet smoke, and then a juicy lemon zest. Very briny once my nose recovers from the peat-bombing. There's a sweetness at the end reminiscent of a white cacha?a. The last thing I pick up is some mild tobacco.

Palate: Thick, oily. Immediately I taste the rubber and shoe polish, with some lemon curd mixed in. This progresses to salt, green tea, and mild honey. Very unusual. There's a burn all the way through but I actually find it pleasant, enhancing the sharp flavors I've picked up. It becomes somewhat meaty, with muted toffee replacing the honey the more I drink. Eventually, some tobacco and Russian sage make an appearance with black olives.

Finish: Long, very dry, spicy. It's as if I drank the last dregs of a strong cup of tea with a bunch of leaf flecks and then licked a line of white pepper off my thumb like salt for a tequila shot. These are followed by cigar ash and leather. It ends with long, dry, refreshing menthol and salt flavors that tingle my mouth for a few minutes. It's the most unique finish I've ever had -- bracing and chilly, like a spring breeze when it's gently raining.

The Verdict: I must admit, my first pour of this was a difficult one and I felt that I had wasted $110. I'm glad I came back 3 weeks later before putting down my thoughts. It's a serious peat bomb. I honestly can't detect any sherry influence in this whatsoever. It's difficult, but I do like it. This is really the only challenging whisky I've ever tasted -- I think I've found my peat-limit with this bottle. If you can sit down and focus on it, it's worth your time, but try it before you buy it.

As a side note, I really respect Kilchoman for putting an age statement on a 5-year-old whisky. That takes gumption, and they deserve recognition for what they're capable of doing in 5 short years. Within the next 2 years they'll be putting out their first 10-year-old whiskies, and I'm definitely going to grab a bottle.

Score: 82.5/100



Repost of old review:

Kilchoman Loch Gorm

Thanks to /u/Devoz for the swap.

Colour: Bright light gold.

Nose: Peat, smoke, cotton candy, grape crush, maple glazed meats, sweet berry jam.

Palate: Peat and smoke, slight leather and brine, brown sugar, and very subtle sherry notes.

Finish: Lingering sweet peat smoke, cherries.

Not sure which Loch Gorm release this is, but the sherry influence is very subtle. A rather sweet dram, the more meaty and pungent Islay notes take a back seat and compliment the sweetness. Very easy to drink. Tastes like a "quality" whisky with real care behind it. Reminds me of Ardbeg and Bowmore. There's some sort of magic at play with Kilchoman, the young stuff tastes surprisingly great.

46%

87/100



repost from 6 months ago: 

Appearance: similarly light and pale. Uncoloured, as I like it!

Nose: peat is present but much less in your face than with the Machir Bay. The smoke is subtle and accompanied by dried berries, almonds, raisins, figs, some red berries? has a nice briney character still too.

Taste: some peat, lots of spiciness - nutmeg, cinnamon, pepper, sea salt. Smoked meat. Sherry influence is there, but less obvious than on the nose. Berries and dried fruit mostly. Oily and warm. 

Finish: medium length, with smoke and spice. 

Score: 88/100

this is quite tasty, but shows its age. A few more years and it could be fantastic. 



Repost of a review from 2 years ago. 2013 bottling. Thanks to muaddib for the reminder.

Happy Whisky Wednesday everyone. After all the Diageo-fied fun of yesterday I am going to review another whisky from an independent distillery. It?s Kilchoman?s sherry matured Loch Gorm. My bottle was distilled is 2007 and bottled in 2013 which makes it (counting on fingers) 6 years old. As mentioned in my previous review, Kilchoman?s whiskies are still young but they are producing some serious quality. This one is 46%, NCF, natural color. Now the notes.

Nose: jammy red fruits and a blast of peat like a can of freshly opened tennis balls

Taste: soft peat, bitter herbs, lemon rind, fresh strawberry

Finish: medium length, a nice lingering sweet-bitterness

Overall: 86/100. With this whisky Kilchoman shows off the versatility of its spirit by aging it exclusively in sherry casks and releasing it at a relatively young age. Its youth is apparent across the board but not off-putting or distracting. Don?t dive in expecting the depth or size of Uigeadail but if you are a fan of the sherry/peat combo as I am this whisky will not disappoint.



Copy and paste from my prior effort:

[?]ShooterFlatchThe Whisky Abides[S] 
Kilchoman Loch Gorm. Distilled 2007 and bottled 2013. 46% ABV, NCF and natural colour(says so on my 700ml bottle). Somebody correct me if I'm wrong but I think this was the first release of the now standard LG.

NOSE: smoke, fig, dark sweets(kidding), dark berry jam, missing the iodine and medicinal notes from Frog and Ardbeg.
TASTE: mouthful of berry preserves if they were smeared on summer sausage. Not sure I can do better than that. It's a bit "spirity" but not overly new make at all. These guys have the stills dialed in IMO.
FINISH: smoke lingers above all, but still some fruit echoes. Nice and pleasant exit.
This was my first Kilchoman and I had trouble not reaching for it first when in the Scotch mood. Still more of a bourbon/rye guy but I'm having trouble staying out of these Islays for sure. B+ rating and can't wait to see what 10-15 yr Kilchoman tastes like.



Kilchoman Loch Gorm - reviewed 11/2014

From Islay?s newest distillery, Loch Gorm is matured for Oloroso sherry butts for 5 years, then in hogsheads for 6 weeks, per Kilchoman?s website (as of 2014).

46% abv. I don?t believe this is chill filtered, or has coloring added.

Nose - Ashy smoke first and foremost, with butterscotch, vanilla, toasted almonds, black pepper, allspice and some cinnamon. The sherry influence here is fairly mild, but to me comes through a bit with the almond and cinnamon notes. An herbal or vegetal note eventually come around with some breathing, in a way that brings Talisker to mind. Nice richness and depth.

Taste- Butterscotch again, vanilla, with plenty of smoke and some big spicy notes ? black pepper and cinnamon primarily, with a little allspice - coming in on the development. Something slightly vegetal is here as well, like a smoked poblano or something. Nicely full bodied, but not aggressively so.

Finish - Smoke with some big spicy notes linger for a long time?great finish.

I quite enjoy this ? the flavors are nice and rich, balanced, and well integrated. This is probably about as good as Scotch can get after 5 years. As good as it is, it?s lacking some complexity, or an extra dimension that would really put it over the top for me in to the realm of the better Ardbegs or Laphroaigs I?ve had. While it is quite nice, I don?t have plans to purchase this one as I can get Ardbeg Uigeadail or Laphroaig 10 yr Cask Strength for $25-$30 less.

89/100



as I can get Ardbeg Uigeadail or Laphroaig 10 yr Cask Strength for $25-$30 less.

That is a very good point and pretty much my sweetspot where I would put the price if I could...



WhiskyNetworkReview: #110 | r/bourbon: #17 | r/scotch: #83 | r/worldwhisky: #10 | ? 85

I wrote this review before I knew this would be the community review, thus it's different then my usual community review approach as I had this over three different nights and compiled my notes into this review.    

Loch Gorm is the biggest lake ? or, well, Loch ? on Islay. One of its older names is Loch Guirm. The Loch is located on the northern end of the Rhinns of Islay, it's north of Rockside Farm, which is home to the Kilchoman Distillery. Three streams run out of the Loch: the Saligo River ending in Saligo Bay, the Allt nan Criche ending in the Machir Bay and a third ? unnamed? - stream ending in Loch Indaal. So a Loch very heavy on whisky in general and Kilchoman releases in particular. Oh, trout fishing is said to be good there as well...

The first edition of the Kilchoman expression Loch Gorm was released in 2013 as a successor of the Sherry Cask expression. The specifications were pretty similar to the Sherry Cask: about 4.5 years in Oloroso Sherry butts and then finished in Oloroso Hogsheads for six weeks. Originally, it seems to have been the plan to periodically release a more mature version each year but as far as my knowledge goes the specification on all three releases so far (2013, 2014, 2015) were all pretty similar. The releases are officially ?limited releases? but the limit is about 10.000 bottles each year.
This years Loch Gorm however contains a combination of fresh as well as refill Oloroso casks and is over six years in age. So, it's the oldest Loch Gorm yet and ?limited? to 17 casks worldwide. Resulting in round about 14000 bottles. And the packaging got an update as well. Woohoo. Ok, the last bit was ironic in case you haven't noticed through the long distance of the internet...
Here are my reviews of the 2014 and 2015 Loch Gorm whose characteristics (and hence reviews) were pretty similar. Let's find out what a difference one and a half years of age and sone refill casks make!
I finished my sample over the last three nights and the following is the summary of my notes:     

Kilchoman | Loch Gorm 2016 | NAS (distilled 2010 and bottled 2016) | fresh and refill Oloroso casks | 46%  | ?72 in Germany |     

Nose: warm, rotten vegetation, mineral peat, nuts and some honey sweetness, as well as Oloroso notes, salt, nutmeg which are a bit strange and some rubber notes...    

Taste: sweet entry, honey/raisins, some ashy smoke (but not overly so), (a bit bitter) peat, milk chocolate, slightly oily mouthfeel and oloroso (sweet fermented grapes, nuts, raisin sweetness, brandy and often a bit of a sulfur note which isn't present here at all) notes.     

Finish: Here the Loch Gorm shines, nice tobacco leave notes, ashy smoke, salt, tar, dark dark chocolate and nice Oloroso notes as well as some drying oak at the end. Love the finish! 

Conclusion: it feels like the 2016 version tastes a bit more matured and a bit more solid then the previous releases. But - honestly - I guess that's because I know it's older and hence think it should be. Sadly, my 2015 has gone some time ago so the side-by-side is not going to happen. Still, a very solid release and my go-to whisky when I'm not in the mood for cask strength. For me it has the perfect combination of youth and oloroso influence and I love kilchoman and their products. Putting the kilcho-fanboy glasses aside, their releases are priced a bit too high for what they are. These go for about ?70 in Germany, I'd happily pay around ?50, which feels more fitting to me. Still, being who I am, I'll probably buy one of these (and yes, because of fandom, I might actually do so happily) once I lifted my bottle-buying-ban...
Price aside, top of the non-cs class for me

Score: 91/100    



Hello Scotchit! Feels good to take part in an other community review! I intended to post this one 
before it opened but was caught partying a bit much this weekend (which was pretty awesome anyways).
I've been a big Islay fan since when I started drinking scotch and I also love me some Kilchoman.
This is the Loch Gorm 2015 which from their website
was matured in a combination of Oloroso sherry butts and hogshead. The age and cask combination
change a bit every year from what I've seen so these might be somewhat different from one release to
another.

Kilchoman Loch Gorm, Islay, 46% ABV, NCF/NCA, $124 CAD / 700ml @ SAQ

Color: Deep gold

Nose: Malty, orange/citrus, briny peat.

Taste: Fruity orange. Ashy smoke. Maple syrup? Definitely some kind of brown sugar in there. Dark
chocolate. Spicy too. Pepper. Slightly oaky.

Finish: Ashy smoke, spicy and peppery, dry oak, hint of burnt sugar. Quite a long finish.

Overall: This is a favourite in my collection so far. The sherry maturation gives a nice
character to it with the syrupy, brown sugar on chocolate notes. Still has citrus fruits but more on
the orange side. A big smokiness rounds it off really well. The aftertaste on this is ridiculous, it
feels like it gets smokier and spicier, while retaining a hint of sweetness. I also appreciate that
this is not just a peated sherry bomb. The sherry influence is quite noticeable but it's not raisiny 
like many sherried whiskies are. It just balances the peat with a different character than the bourbon
casks do which is a welcome change of pace in the Islay world. I'm giving this a pretty high score (my 
highest to date) but I'm still keeping room for future reviews.

Score: 91/100



Wow, I got a cool reminder to re-post my review of this one, honestly missed it was happening so I appreciate the prodding by /u/muaddib99 !

My original review from Dec 2014

Nose: That beautifully smoky sugar from peat & sherry, with chocolate covered cherries; however, with some less than welcome rubber and fuel notes. This is a nice bbq situation but the sherry here highlights the off notes from Kilchoman?s youth, and they?ve stuck around as the bottle has aired out over the past few months B/B-

Palate: Chocolate coated rubber. Tingly black pepper and cherry compote over flank steak. It?s meatier than it is smoky, the peat blends into the sherry nicely but there are some rubbery notes that throw me off, something about the blend of sweet and oily. B+/B

Finish: Briny, long, warm, medicinal, very light ash, rubber. Could use a bit more ash, that?d balance this into glory. B+/B

Sum Up: I really liked this upon first sip and it is still real tasty for a peat head. But once this led me to buy a bottle of Machir Bay (at a much better $57) the Loch Gorm just can?t compete. I?ll do a spot on the Machir Bay later but Kilchoman?s oily youth marries better with vanilla than it does sherry. A really interesting contrast that shows the effects of barrel choice, especially as both retain a lovely oiliness. The youthful notes just come out more in this sweeter dram - it?s a weird effect. Don?t get it twisted, if you crave sherry + peat you?ll enjoy Loch Gorm + your mouth-hole. 85/100

Empty Glass: Sugary oily rubbery musky



Hi Guys, a repost from my recent trip to Scotland. Thanks to /u/muaddib99 for the reminder! 

Kilchoman Loch Gorm 46%

Colour: Gold

Body: Full

Nose: Reminds me of the Madeira cask. New rubber, pomegranate, liquorice, soot, new car, bad sulphur. Weird.

Taste: Pomegranate, liquorice, aniseed, mint, new rubber, some weird sulphury, burnt rubber. Nope. Very weird.

Finish: Medium length. Creamy and spicy with some ash but still a little weirdly rubbery.

Notes: Unknown batch. Nope, nope, nope. A shame, I really wanted to like. Bad batch? Bad bottle?

67/100



(repost) Kilchoman Loch Gorm - 2015 release - 46% abv

Nose:  Strong freshly cracked black pepper, ashy smoke, peat, wet dirt, musty basement, sweet butter, salty, overripe/rotten apple, bacon, sweet mesquite barbecue sauce.  With water, spicy nutmeg, maybe cinnamon, astringent, iodine

Taste: Creamy, oily, melted salted butter, wet ash, like someone put their cigarette out in my Coca-cola sweetness?  With water, silky, oily, thicker, raisins, cocoa

Finish: Drying, wood campfire smoke, bacon, orange pith, charred barbecue sauce, there?s a wave of something and then it disappears really quickly, overpowered by the smoke and meat.  With water, more orange pith, more cooling, almost menthol like. Increasingly mouth-watering.  Pretzel.

Score: 89/100 

Buy a full bottle? Maybe!

Closing Thoughts: Kilchoman 100% Islay is the first Scotch sample I ever tried and it tasted like I licked a dry ashtray.  Hated it.  But I kept hearing good things and was willing to chalk it up to me being a novice.  So I wanted to try again, but knowing I prefer my Islays with some sherry sweetness.  I was really impressed with Loch Gorm, to the point where it?s now on my short list of potential buys.



Review #26

First time in a community review, glad to finally take part in this lovable concept ! Thanks again to /u/j4ni for the sample ;-)
Kilchoman Loch Gorm batch 3 - 46%

Nose : wow, this is unusual. Quite sulfury I must say, but as if the sulfur didn't come from the sherry, but rather from the distillate. Quite a lot of kohlrabi, aspargus, and brine. Green pepper, marinated garlic, gherkins in vinegar. Deviled eggs and mustard. All these kind of things,  you know what I mean very well. Definitely complex ! Quite some lemon as well, fresh ginger, white wine ? Feels a bit Japanese at times as well, with rice vinegar, wakame. There's a whole lot to sniff here ! There's a stale fruitiness that shows up. Take a green melon and add ashes and motor oil in place of cured ham and port. Yummy. Later arrives a very complex industrial side, with parget dust, rubber, a tiny bit of soap, of wool. A new synthetic tennis court, or a new car interior, or a new pair of shoes. I can't seem to express it better, hope you figure it out. Actually very little peat as such, it's integrated in the other elements. The only "evident" proof that sherry has been used is actually the very dirty nature of this nose. Very intersting, but maybe not extremely pleasurable. 

Palate : excellent texture and alcohol integretion. It's very soft on the arrival but the next second, it blows ! Extremely earthy, sandy and biscuity now. The sherry markers are more obvious, and it's a very dry sherry we're talking about. Lemons became mandarines. Ash, iodine / chlorine and brine are still there, with the same dry spices : curry, caraway, cloves ? More pleasurable and coherent than the nose, but a bit less complex. With further sips come softer sides. A peated hazelnut paste ? Brine-soaked apricots ? Between accesibility and firmness.

Finish : dry sherry, sulfury at that. Mandarines with cigar ashes, everlasting traces of vinegar and various earthy nuts. Wool and thuya. Dry stones. Long, austere and focused.

Comments : a good surprise overall. The nose can get you a bit lost at times and the soapy / vinegary side can get tiring, but its complexity offsets it. Palate and finish are more coherent, and very enjoyable. A good effort on what sherry can - but usuallly doesn't - bring : rather than implementing a "cask layer", it here tweaks some sides of the distillate while muting others. Not your usual sherry-peat combo. Very intersting, but I tend to prefer the sweeter versions like Sanaig or Madeira better. 85/100



Kilchoman Loch Gorm: 2014 & 2015 batches

2014: 90

2015: 82



NOSE: smoke, fig, dark sweets(kidding), dark berry jam, missing the iodine and medicinal notes from Frog and Ardbeg. 

TASTE: mouthful of berry preserves if they were smeared on summer sausage. Not sure I can do better than that. It's a bit "spirity" but not overly new make at all. These guys have the stills dialed in IMO. 

FINISH: smoke lingers above all, but still some fruit echoes. Nice and pleasant exit. 

This was my first Kilchoman and I had trouble not reaching for it first when in the Scotch mood. Still more of a bourbon/rye guy but I'm having trouble staying out of these Islays for sure. B+ rating and can't wait to see what 10-15 yr Kilchoman tastes like. 



Kilchoman is a fantastic distillery! I was recently in Scotland and visited Kilchoman on Islay. Hands down one of the best tours out there. Plus, they do everything on-site, including bottling! All on a small farm. 

We got to sample both the wash and new make spirit. The new make spirit was, as expected, strong as the devil and just a tad hot. However, the purity and cleanliness really jumped out. 

Kilchoman designed their stills specifically for the production of the lightest/cleanest spirit so that it would be very good at a very young age. They are knocking it out of the park already. 

On my visit I bought a bottle of the Madeira cask. Fabulous. Sunshine and smoke. 



Both samples provided to me by u/nsquare14 as blind samples. Also I have no idea how to do that spoiler thing where you have to highlight to read, so read slow or something.

Sample 1

Whiskey Network Review #65  r/Scotch Review #33

Appearance: Yellow gold

Nose: Peat, a bit of medicinal funk, tangerine,  brown sugar, ginger, pineapple, seashore, muted sherry notes

Taste: Peat, brine, lemon oil, apricot, candied ginger, sherry notes (baking spice, brown sugar)

Finish: Smokey and sweet

Notes: The peat is more campfire that medicinal on the palate, the smoke hits you first then immediately followed by a blast of brine as I hold it in my mouth I pick up some sweeter flavors like apricot and ginger. I would guess bottled around 45ish abv. I am really digging this I like the peat and brine up front and muted sweetness, just enough to keep it interesting.

Guess: Something something Talisker (Could be Bruichladdich but that brine makes me lean towards Talisker) finished in sherry. casks

Reveal: Kilchoman Loch Gorm (Distilled 2009, Bottled 2017), 46%





Glad you liked Loch-Gorm. It is my first opened bottle of Kilchoman as well. 

Talisker 6YO was initially priced at $50 by K&L wines, so didn't buy it because you can get 10YO at the same price which is a known good quality. I picked up this bottle when K&L discounted it down to $40. I feel it is definitely worth a try at this price.



Jleese reporting in again with a review of Kilchoman Loch Gorm 2014 release, after hearing such good things, I took a leap of faith and bought a bottle having never tried anything from the distillery before.  Let?s see if it was worth it.

Colour: pale gold  

ABV: 46%  

Nose: A rich smokey peatiness immediately fills the nose, simply earthy and gorgeous, I just took a little time to just enjoy this aspect before carrying on to the deeper scents. On closer inspection there?s some sweet sherry notes with hints of red fruits, some sugared citrus and just a little salt there as well.  

Palette: A really fantastically thick mouthfeel, rich and full of sweet peat and vanilla at first before flourishing into a plethora of flavours, sherry takes it?s hold with a lovely warm mix of fruit a hint of smoke and quite a bit of salinity present as well. The peat may take a little break in the middle but returns stronger than ever toward the end of mouthful.  

Finish: long and warm, excellent for cold winters night. The lovely remnants of smokey fruits trickle down your neck whilst pepper and peat refuse to leave the top of the throat.

Conclusions: A very nice dram, slips down an absolute treat, the nose perhaps could be improved on a little, it doesn?t quite pack the punch that the taste afterwards would suggest. Definitely worth buying a bottle of I would love to try more kilchomans.

90/100



Review #62: Kilchoman Loch Gorm

This is my 1st taste of Kilchoman. No added E-150. NCF. Sherry casked. It's either 5 or 6 years old.

Color: dark amber

ABV: 46%

Nose: heavy peat, smoke, nuts, sherry, toffee, chocolate raisins, smoked meat, vanilla, sweet fruits

Taste: heavy peat, oily, a bit of smoke, olives, capers, peppery, a bit soapy,fruity sweet, toffee, coffee

Finish: short, peat, sweet, fruity

Conclusion: Very lovely. This is well rounded in my opinion. The finish is quite disappointing but other than that I don't have complaints. This whisky has made me want to taste more Kilchoman. I will see how this distillery grows. 

Score: 87



Whenever I smell this I hear Sir Ian McKellen as Gandalf uttering a guttural "Loch Gorm" in my mind?s ear. Bought this months ago and I?ve been working through the bottle pretty steadily (of course, y?all scotch swappers are also doing your part!)

Nose: That beautifully smoky sugar from peat & sherry, with chocolate covered cherries; however, with some less than welcome rubber and fuel notes. This is a nice bbq situation but the sherry here highlights the off notes from Kilchoman?s youth, and they?ve stuck around as the bottle has aired out over the past few months B/B-

Palate: Chocolate coated rubber. Tingly black pepper and cherry compote over flank steak. It?s meatier than it is smoky, the peat blends into the sherry nicely but there are some rubbery notes that throw me off, something about the blend of sweet and oily. B+/B

Finish: Briny, long, warm, medicinal, very light ash, rubber. Could use a bit more ash, that?d balance this into glory. B+/B

Sum Up: I really liked this upon first sip and it is still real tasty for a peat head. But once this led me to buy a bottle of Machir Bay (at a much better $57) the Loch Gorm just can?t compete. I?ll do a spot on the Machir Bay later but Kilchoman?s oily youth marries better with vanilla than it does sherry. A really interesting contrast that shows the effects of barrel choice, especially as both retain a lovely oiliness. The youthful notes just come out more in this sweeter dram - it?s a weird effect. Don?t get it twisted, if you crave sherry + peat you?ll enjoy Loch Gorm + your mouth-hole. 85/100

Empty Glass: Sugary oily rubbery musky



REVIEW #127: Kilchoman Loch Gorm - 2015 release - 46% abv

Nose:  Strong freshly cracked black pepper, ashy smoke, peat, wet dirt, musty basement, sweet butter, salty, overripe/rotten apple, bacon, sweet mesquite barbecue sauce.  With water, spicy nutmeg, maybe cinnamon, astringent, iodine

Taste: Creamy, oily, melted salted butter, wet ash, like someone put their cigarette out in my Coca-cola sweetness?  With water, silky, oily, thicker, raisins, cocoa

Finish: Drying, wood campfire smoke, bacon, orange pith, charred barbecue sauce, there?s a wave of something and then it disappears really quickly, overpowered by the smoke and meat.  With water, more orange pith, more cooling, almost menthol like. Increasingly mouth-watering.  Pretzel.

Score: 89/100 

Buy a full bottle? Maybe!

Closing Thoughts: Kilchoman 100% Islay is the first Scotch sample I ever tried and it tasted like I licked a dry ashtray.  Hated it.  But I kept hearing good things and was willing to chalk it up to me being a novice.  So I wanted to try again, but knowing I prefer my Islays with some sherry sweetness.  I was really impressed with Loch Gorm, to the point where it?s now on my short list of potential buys.



You're a few hours too late with that thought. I just ordered 28 more samples and the 100% Islay isn't one of them.  

I almost added the Sanaig but whenever I read the dry ashy note on a Kilchoman review I run in the other direction. :) that first impression was a doozy.  

I'm re-reviewing other drams I didn't care for initially because they keep getting good scores (highland park, old pulteney, et al) so I'll get back to Kilchoman eventually.  



I'm sure it's in the sidebar (I'm on mobile) and ultra common knowledge, but Drinks by the Dram from Master of Malts is the most absurd thing I've ever seen. I'm about to spend ALL of the money. Thank you. 

Also, phenomenal review. Might have to give it a whirl as I don't have to buy a whole bottle. 



:)  You take the red pill... 

I think I've gone through 122 Master of Malt Drinks by the Dram at this point.  It is most definitely not the most affordable way to drink whisky if you're paying attention to the price per volume.  

But my goal was to sample as many whiskies as possible to learn what is out there.  A friend and I went halfsies on 35 samples I selected based on Ralfy reviews and the /r/scotch review archive data.  Then we ordered 40 more.  Then more...  

My list of want-to-try is a lot smaller nowadays.  I know what I don't like.  I have a few I want to re-try now that I have a good understanding of what I'm tasting and smelling.  And I still can't shake the feeling that my rating scale is out of whack and would love to do a 150 dram blind tasting and order them by preference... but that probably won't happen.

Either way, I found Drinks by the Dram to be a hell of a lot of fun and a very efficient way to sample the widest range possible. Finedrams.com and whiskysite.nl do samples as well.  Their samples are bigger and at very competitive prices, though last I checked they both had a smaller selection than Master of Malt.  Shop around.  
