Lagavulin 12 ? 57.5% (?78.95)

Quite salty, Floral and tropical.. this is great but  insanely over priced!

Caol Ila Natural Cask Strength ? 59.3% (20 cl bottle, full bottle: ?42-89.95)

Sweet, I?m still not convinced by Caol Ila.




I'd put Kilchoman over Lag 12, but that's me. 

Welcome to the centurion club!

Stick around, you badass.



Thanks, I intend on sticking around. Got to find a new goal now tartans are over!

Also, wrt Kilchoman, I can't pick my favourite unless I try them side by side.

I've tried the Lagavulin, Kilchoman, Ardbed and Laphroaig side by side quite a few times and my order of preference has been slightly different each time. The scoring's a bit too fine for my tastes, so I put them close. But generally that's the order I'd go for 9 7 6.5 times out of 10.



Thanks, you'll be joining the club soon!

More whisky.. for everyone!



welcome to the Centurion club!

just wait til you get the invisible flair when you reach 200



I know, I know, I missed the Community Review of this bad boy, I suck. But I'm here to review it now, better late than never. 

Lagavulin 12 Cask Strength

Strength: 55.1%

Color: Pale straw. 

Nose: Fresh spring air, light malt, and meaty peat. Ballsy, but not overwhelming. Consistent with my experience tasting other Lagavulin products, it has a lot of peat and some smoke without the iodine I get from Ardbegs and most Laphroaigs. The youthful notes make it a bit more refreshing than the 16 year, which is nice on a hot day. 

Palate: Smokey bacon, strong peaty notes, and BBQ bark. Citrus and malt struggle to break through the wall of peat, but they're there. 

Finish: The smoke ramps up, and the finish lingers like the taste of a cigar smoked on a warm summer evening. Just when I think I've got this dram all figured out, some chocolatey notes pop out. 

Summary: This is the best peat monster I've tried so far. I know my dislike of Ardbeg and Laphroaig weakens the competition a lot, but still, this is a great dram. 

Score: 92/100 

Scotch Review #97

Whisky Review #201

@review_bot scotch 'Lagavulin'



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Lagavulin reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



It doesn't make any sense to me either. Wine searcher says the average price of the 16 is $86 and the average price of the 12 is $121 in the USA, but I know a place that sells the 16 for ~$60 so I'd say the 12 is roughly double. I think they figured they should charge more for the higher age statement. 

Another whisky bar not too far away has 2oz pours of Laga 12 for $24, and I know another place that charges $26. $6 for a 2+oz pour is bananas. 



I found this in the Maui (Hawaii USA) Costco upon arrival (November 2014). Needless to say I drank a lot of Lagavulin that week.

http://i.imgur.com/QIgwGqu.jpg



Greetings Scotchit! While on Islay, I picked up a Lagavulin 12 (as you do), but I happened to also have a sample of the 2011 from /u/glinsvad that I hadn't reviewed, and it reminded me that one of the most common questions about annual releases like this one is: how much do the batches vary? 

Well, I didn't know, so I decided to taste two batches side-by-side to find out.

Review #43: Lagavulin 12, 2011 Edition
Islay, 57.5% ABV, bourbon cask matured, 50ml sample courtesy of glinsvad

Nose: strong peat, wood smoke, apple, vanilla, oak, salty toffee, slight liquorice

Smokey and sweet, with a cool little liquorice note I like. Brilliant stuff that's wonderfully balanced.

Taste: lots of peat, slight medicinal note, salty, caramel, oaky vanilla, sour apples

Sweeter than the notes might signal, but peat is front and center on this, with the rest providing some great sweet balance,

Finish: long and strong, medicinal, smokey, slight bitter oak, citrus, sea spray

Glorious. Wonderfully Islay. Massive peat bomb finish, no flaws, no surprises.

Summary: Cask strength bourbon cask peat bomb, done to perfection. Awesome. One of my favourite Islays, and I love Islays.

Score: 95/100
Awe-inspiring, one of my highest scores ever.

Review #44: Lagavulin 12, 2012 Edition
Islay, 56.1% ABV, bourbon cask matured, ?71 at Lagavulin distillery

Nose: sour apples, sour barley, yeast, peat smoke, salt, wet wood

Wow, this is so different. Green apples and that sour barley note that I get from all Bruichladdichs. The peat is there, but it's nowhere near as forward.

Taste: sour green apples, earth, sour barley, peat smoke, mild caramel

Sour and earthy like a Bruichladdich, with a weird earthy mushroomy note that I associate with Tobermory. Something's just a bit... Off. It's peaty, but in a weird way.

Finish: long, sour, earthy peat, smoke, malted barley, apples, dry bitter oak

There's peat and smoke in this, but it's in line with the rest of the whisky in terms of sourness. 

Summary: If someone gave me this and told me this was a Port Charlotte, I'd believe them. It's a lot like Bruichladdich spirit, but it's entirely different to the '11. I don't know how big the batches for this are, but it seems like this has some bad casks in it. It's not really bad, but it's nowhere near the epicness of the other dram.

Score: 86/100
Good, but not compared to the other one...

So there you go, lots of difference. I can quite honestly say that even my whisky newbie girlfriend was surprised when I said these were the same whisky, but different years. That's pretty worrying for Lagavulin, since this is their big premium flagship product. Maybe Diageo and Lagavulin are wrong about casks lasting forever...

In conclusion, if you find an '11, buy it, if you find a '12, try it first. I'll personally be on the lookout for last year's edition, it's that good.



Maybe Diageo and Lagavulin are wrong about casks lasting forever

Did they actually say something to the effect of "we can reuse casks as many times as we want?"



Yup. Our guide showed us a used stave and pointed at how far the spirit had gone into the oak (5mm ish) and said there was no reason not to use them for longer than we live. They strongly seem to believe in cask reuse. 

I saw casks from the 50s there, personally.

I think they're crazy, and someone is going to have to tell the accountants to shove it up their ass in the next decade.



I do think they recondition casks by sanding down the used wood a bit, but you're right, the previous occupant is lost. Sherry casks I believe they refill with sherry briefly to get it back in there, but overall, yeah...

Diageo thinks they can do it, and the CEO probably won't be around to get fired when they can see the results so what the fuck does he care?

It's hubris, IMO.

PS: buy GlenDronach and Kilchoman while it's cheap, because it won't be once they realize they're the only ones doing shit properly. See: Balvenie, Macallan.



Greetings Scotchit! While on Islay, I picked up a Lagavulin 12 (as you do), but I happened to also have a sample of the 2011 from /u/glinsvad that I hadn't reviewed, and it reminded me that one of the most common questions about annual releases like this one is: how much do the batches vary? 

Well, I didn't know, so I decided to taste two batches side-by-side to find out.

Review #43: Lagavulin 12, 2011 Edition
Islay, 57.5% ABV, bourbon cask matured, 50ml sample courtesy of glinsvad

Nose: strong peat, wood smoke, apple, vanilla, oak, salty toffee, slight liquorice

Smokey and sweet, with a cool little liquorice note I like. Brilliant stuff that's wonderfully balanced.

Taste: lots of peat, slight medicinal note, salty, caramel, oaky vanilla, sour apples

Sweeter than the notes might signal, but peat is front and center on this, with the rest providing some great sweet balance,

Finish: long and strong, medicinal, smokey, slight bitter oak, citrus, sea spray

Glorious. Wonderfully Islay. Massive peat bomb finish, no flaws, no surprises.

Summary: Cask strength bourbon cask peat bomb, done to perfection. Awesome. One of my favourite Islays, and I love Islays.

Score: 95/100
Awe-inspiring, one of my highest scores ever.

Review #44: Lagavulin 12, 2012 Edition
Islay, 56.1% ABV, bourbon cask matured, ?71 at Lagavulin distillery

Nose: sour apples, sour barley, yeast, peat smoke, salt, wet wood

Wow, this is so different. Green apples and that sour barley note that I get from all Bruichladdichs. The peat is there, but it's nowhere near as forward.

Taste: sour green apples, earth, sour barley, peat smoke, mild caramel

Sour and earthy like a Bruichladdich, with a weird earthy mushroomy note that I associate with Tobermory. Something's just a bit... Off. It's peaty, but in a weird way.

Finish: long, sour, earthy peat, smoke, malted barley, apples, dry bitter oak

There's peat and smoke in this, but it's in line with the rest of the whisky in terms of sourness. 

Summary: If someone gave me this and told me this was a Port Charlotte, I'd believe them. It's a lot like Bruichladdich spirit, but it's entirely different to the '11. I don't know how big the batches for this are, but it seems like this has some bad casks in it. It's not really bad, but it's nowhere near the epicness of the other dram.

Score: 86/100
Good, but not compared to the other one...

So there you go, lots of difference. I can quite honestly say that even my whisky newbie girlfriend was surprised when I said these were the same whisky, but different years. That's pretty worrying for Lagavulin, since this is their big premium flagship product. Maybe Diageo and Lagavulin are wrong about casks lasting forever...

In conclusion, if you find an '11, buy it, if you find a '12, try it first. I'll personally be on the lookout for last year's edition, it's that good.



Maybe Diageo and Lagavulin are wrong about casks lasting forever

Did they actually say something to the effect of "we can reuse casks as many times as we want?"



Yup. Our guide showed us a used stave and pointed at how far the spirit had gone into the oak (5mm ish) and said there was no reason not to use them for longer than we live. They strongly seem to believe in cask reuse. 

I saw casks from the 50s there, personally.

I think they're crazy, and someone is going to have to tell the accountants to shove it up their ass in the next decade.



I do think they recondition casks by sanding down the used wood a bit, but you're right, the previous occupant is lost. Sherry casks I believe they refill with sherry briefly to get it back in there, but overall, yeah...

Diageo thinks they can do it, and the CEO probably won't be around to get fired when they can see the results so what the fuck does he care?

It's hubris, IMO.

PS: buy GlenDronach and Kilchoman while it's cheap, because it won't be once they realize they're the only ones doing shit properly. See: Balvenie, Macallan.



Before I begin, I must let everyone  know that it's only 4pm and this is my 7th review of the day. I'm going for 10 so I can get some sweet tartan. I apologise in advance for any typos and general drunkenness.  Reddit is also having issues and my submissions are not showing up, hopefully Reddit's servers can get it's shit together soon.

Lagavulin 12 CS (2011) 57.5% ABV

Colour: Amber -1

Nose: Peat explosion! Fruity and sweet with some faint savoury BBQ smoke. I can sniff this all day long.

Taste: Oily, almost viscous. A touch of white pepper. Caramel, honey and melon. Aniseed, clove and nutmeg.

Finish: Spice, peat smoke, toffee, slight earthiness. Medium to long and fucking awesome.

This shits all over the Laga 16 -- it has more complexity, more depth, more deliciousness and is insanely great!

95/100

Thanks for reading.



Nice review!

My thoughts on this were much the same as yours... this is by far my favorite dram to date.  Not available in my area so I had to order it online and got it for a nice $67 plus shipping from Arlington Wine.... shipping brought the total up to about $85 which for me is still about $13 cheaper than the 16 so not bad considering how much better I find this one.

cheers!



Here in Australia the 16 can cost between $90-120AUD depending where you buy it, the 12 is very hard to find and is at least $150.

I got 2 bottles of the 12 at Singapore airport for around $85AUD each!



This shits all over the Laga 16

I wasn't expecting it, but yep, sure does. It's funny, I absolutely loved both this and the DE I tried, but I can't really see myself buying a bottle of the 16 ever again.



If you can get me a Supernova, I'm willing to give you my open bottle of Laga 12 which is about 60-70% full. I'll even give you samples of anything you want.

Can you tell that I really want a Supernova?



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  I'm trying to review one's that I've put off for a while so here's Lagavulin 12 limited edition 115proof

Color: very light tan

Nose: fiery peat bog, sea salt and honey roasted nuts.  medicinal bandages.

Taste: full bodied smoke and peat. sweet vanilla underneath.  nice mellow brine and rich toffee.  spent charcoal and burnt oak.

Finish: a long and winding road

fantastic release from Lagavulin. it really shines with such a high proof. really in your face.  If you're a fan of the mellow savory 16 year release and want something bigger/stronger, this is it.  outstanding stuff.  my wife got me a second bottle for xmas this year and I'm going to make it last as long as I can.  

94/100

bonus old pic



Whisky

Blasphemer...



excellent review!

I recently picked up this same one and it was fantastic.

much, much better than the 16 IMO.



Hello scotchit! I hope everybody's having a nice weekend. I do, because I'm sipping this superb

Lagavulin 12 2011

Islay, 57.5%

color: like champagne

nose: peat smoke, medicinal, sea salted, grilled fish, citrus, tar, roasted apples

taste: peat, oily, citrus drops, very sweet, hints of wood ash, tree gum and caramel

finish: smoke, sweet peat, long

I love Lagavulin, especially the 16 yo. This one's a cracker too, Islay cask strength ftw. Stronger, more powerful, but less complex than the Lagavulin 16. Citrus notes pretty dominant.

90/100



This is a special release of Lagavulin that, unlike many of Diageo?s special releases, seems to come out every year. Unlike the 16 and Distiller?s Edition, though, this doesn?t have a sherry influence, but is bottled at cask strength (woo-hoo)!

56.1% abv. Thanks to /u/actual_poop for the sample.

Nose - Lots of butterscotch and vanilla, with toasted nuts, smoke, honey, brown sugar, something fruity I?m not too sure about, but most reminds me of cantaloupe.

Taste - Starts with honey and spice (black pepper and ginger), picking up some smoke, vanilla, and poblano pepper. Slightly oily texture that reminds me a bit of Caol Ila, but with a decent amount of weight.

Finish - Develops a somewhat citrusy note with black pepper, ginger and smoke. Quite enjoyable, as it develops for a while and the spicy, citrusy tang lingers and lingers.

I like this a lot ? a very well done bourbon cask matured Islay. This doesn?t have quite the depth and/or complexity to push the score in to the 90?s for me, but does a good job if I want I nice hit of smoky Scotch, and has a very nice finish. This also drinks very easy for the proof. I think I prefer the 16, though, due to the sherry influence - although, I've read elsewhere that the 2012 release was one of the weaker ones.

89/100



so normally I copypasta these community reviews, but when one of my nominations was voted to be community review for April, I held off reviewing this until I could do it live on the due date. So here it is, live and exclusive! I got this sample last summer from /u/KaptianKrush. I've had small sips from it, but didnt do a full review yet. A lot has changed since then for me.. the woman who was with me in the car when i completed the swap, thinking i was some kind of lunatic for meeting up with a random person to exchange whisky, is now my fiancee! also, i've gone from about 30 reviews to this, my 74th /r/scotch review. other than that, everything's pretty much the same :P on to the review!

Appearance: very pale yellow straw. Obviously not coloured, just the way I like it. 

Nose: big wave of peat smoke and some sweet floral notes too. some light fruit. Pretty salty smelling as well.

Taste: that is a ton of peat! Glad that didn't die down over almost a year in a sample bottle! Hot burning smoke. Has a bit of a soapy characteristic in it that's pretty unique. Smoked meat? but sort of like the bits of steak that stick to the grill and get really charred. Very salty/briney. 

Finish: long and smoky. Doesn't really fade much. I might be tasting this all night, and I'm ok with that!

Rating: 90/100

rated this a point lower than the 16 year, but that's because I reviewed that so long ago, my tastes weren't as discerning. This is a great dram, but could use a bit more complexity as it's so utterly dominated by the peat and smoke. 



You swap with glinsvad yet? Why not? He's awesome, and he sent me 4 Islay staples that were amazing. Seriously, this guy deserves a steak and a high five (thought I was going to say something else, didn't you? Dirty Scotch monkeys...)

Anyway, as I've said before, Lagavulin 16 is my go-to "someone else is paying" drink. It's smooth, it goes great with a good slab of beef, and it's amazing. And it's pricey, so someone else buying it makes your night.

And as a lot of you have read (or are reading for the first time), some Scotches are hard to find here in Ontario, and are pricey, so Lagavulin 12 has never really been an option for me. I've read multiple reviews stating it's amazing, and have wanted to try this one for awhile. 

If you're very observant, and stalking me, you'll notice I'm working on the advanced and beginner list. I'll be taking a break from it for awhile, and doing some others. Mostly /r/worldwhisky, though some Scotches will be popping up here and there. Here's hoping this last "Essential" one (for awhile) lives up to the hype.

Region: Islay

Price: Not available in Ontario. Thanks LCBO. We get 15 bottles of $26,000 Glenfiddich 50 in Ontario, however don't bring any bottles into the province that I can at least try to afford.

Edition: 2011/11th edition

Abv: 57.5%

Colour: Coors Light

Nose: Mint, alcohol burn, cedar, peat, bacon, leather, cocoa, roses, orange zest, white chocolate, coconut

The nose on this one is a little rougher than the 16. I'm assuming the lack of Abv. and the 4 more years mellows it out, kinda like me on medication. Very Islay, very smokey, and just a hint of sweetness.

Taste: Little burn, menthol, hot sausage, smooth, peat, oregano, smooth!, chocolate

And then the smoothness comes back in.... unlike me, ever. More of that burn, but it becomes smooth over time. Reminds me of other Islay's, kinda like a relaxed Ardbeg or Laphroaig. Some complexity here.

Finish: Peat, sour lemon, pepper, bacon, lettuce, dry, med-short, faint earth, faint strawberry

I'm torn on the finish on this one. It's less than the 16, yet it has more complex earthy/sweetness with the peat. Don't like that it doesn't last too long though.

Conclusion: I'll be honest, I was expecting this one to be up there with Ardbeg Uigendail or Macallan CS. And while this is a great Scotch, it's not at the top of my favourite list. It's great, I'd just rather other ones instead. And it's definitely better than the Lagavulin 16, so it's well worth having some. I'd even consider getting a bottle of it, if I didn't have other whisky to buy. And if I could buy it.

87/100



That is still a pricing thing. Maybe the retailer was dumb and thought that 12 should always cost less than 16 because....reasons. 12 should inherently be more valuable than 16 because it has a higher proof. But 16 is aged longer and there is increased overhead in aging longer.

I don't know. Good find on your part though.
