Thanks to /u/amargolis for the sample!  I've probably drank more Lagavulin 16 than any other whisky.  Whenever I'm traveling for work, I choose this at the hotel bars that have small selections.  But despite my familiarity, I've never reviewed it.  Aged for 16 years and bottled at 43% ABV.

?

Nose:  Sweet peat.  Honey and smoke.  Apples and strawberries lurk underneath.  Orange zest.

Palate:  Medium mouthfeel and very creamy.  Honey, fruit, and smoke.  So smooth and well balanced.  Sea salt and brine.  

Finish:  Medium finish.  Creamy smoke and a bit of spice.  Some licorice and herbal notes.  The herbs really come out in a nice way after awhile.  Chocolate and peanuts as well.

Score: 88/100

?

Delicious as always.  Smooth and easy to drink but still with plenty of character.  This will remain my standby hotel bar dram for the foreseeable future.  There just isn't anything else so widely available and still so delicious.

?

/u/review_bot 'Lagavulin'



Smooth 

Shoot me now.



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Lagavulin:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



You replied to the wrong comment :) 

But the 12 is less influenced by sherry, and is a CS beast. The 16 is very mellow and smooth.



8 currently and I attribute it to the reason I enjoy scotch so much. Thank you for the review. I'm looking forward to the 16 that much more now

ONly if I lived in CA......


Color : Dark golden cask.       

Nose : Burnt rubber, salty, honey, vanilla & sherry notes.           

Taste : Carrot puree, honey, vanilla, walnuts, band-aid, rubber & gentle oak.       

Finish : Short, gentle but has complexity.     

?  

Guess : 85-90 proof, 12-14 years, Islay, sherry-cask, Edradour Ballechin?     

Reveal : Lagavulin 16 Year 86 proof

Conclusion : Costco has this for $51. In all seriousness, this is as balanced as an Islay can get. 3/5



kdz13 made me promise him that I would upload this picture

FTFY



Is it possible that you could perhaps give away which whisky it is in the title? 

I like to read your reviews, but it makes searching for them, and navigating the sub easier.



Lagavulin 16 year old 86 proof

If there is one gripe that I have about this great dram it is the price. I guess being 16 years old makes it that extra amount. At $75~80usd I find the price vs enjoyability range to be narrow. I get much more enjoyment out of Laphroaig Cask Strength for $25 less. The Lagavulin is much subtler a dram, which isnt a negative, sometimes its good to go mellow and smooth. That being said, its a great Islay. Worthy to smoke a nice cigar with or have a steak like Ron Swanson. I'll always have a bottle on hand.

90/100



Lagavulin 16

Islay, 43%

*color: amber +1, red tint, with tiny little suspended particles

*nose: wood smoke, roasted apples, hint of citrus

*taste: peat, smoke, very sweet, sherry, spicy, almost glowing

*finish: long lasting earth and sea feeling

Very complex, absolutely unique, a real classic indeed.

91/100




Been trying to review this for a long time. This is one of my favourite single malts and has been consistently good over the years. I've just never owned my own bottle and whenever I have had a dram I haven't had the chance to make notes. 

Aged 16 years, 43%ABV, Colorised and Chill Filterified

Nose: Earthy peat. Some medicinal reek. Old campfire,still smoldering. Rotten maritime wood. Scorched dark fruits, plums, blackcurrants. Roasted peppers. Roasted nuts. Cooked Pu-erh tea (stole that one from Serge of whiskyfun, but it's so damn true). 

Palate: Great scorched lumps of earthy peat. Dry woody sherry notes, more prominent here. Ash. Juicy red fruits. Hints of lime juice and citrus zest. Strong, unsweetened black tea.

Finish: Long. Woodsmoke. Cinnamon. Sticky jammy notes. A really nice cough syrupy (Vick's Acta-Plus to be precise) note at the back of the throat. 

Rating: 10/10

There is a reason this is considered one of the prolific Islay malts. It's long maturation makes it mellow and approachable (by Islay standards), and good casking makes for a complex and balanced dram. 



My comment was merely a tease since I know what people mean when they rate a perfect 10 or 100 :-)  

But for me, a subjective perfect score is only attainable if one could taste every whisky in the world and thats impossible.  



Of course, every score is :-)

I know I'll never find the perfect whisky, but I'll hopefully come close many times. 



Yes. I can't stand Laphroaig but love this. To me Laphroaig is comically burnt rubber. This is delicious charred steak. 

Obviously it's still really smokey but with a very different flavour. 



Possibly. It's still a heavy hitter, but a bit more refined.

Think of a Shelby Mustang GT350 and a Mercedes S63 AMG. They both have a V8, but do different things with it.



Lagavulin 16 is one of the best known, widely available Islays, if not single malts period - Diageo's predecessor released it back in the late 80's as part of their "Classic Malts" collection, as the Islay representative. The others were Glenkinchie (lowland), Dalwhinnie (Highland), Oban (West Highland...not sure that's really a different region than highland, but whatever), Talisker (island), and Cragganmore (speyside). Others have been added since the original lineup as well - Caol Ila, Clynelish, among others. Also, this is Ron Swanson's drink of choice, in case you've completely tuned out pop culture (not that I'd blame you). Also, this is a component of White Horse blended scotch, although I'm sure the amount of Lagavulin in White Horse these days is quite small. 

43% abv (thanks, Diageo)

Probably chillfiltered/caramel added

Nose - A lot going on?Nose is smoky, peaty, somewhat briny, getting smoked meat (bacon!) and fish, orange, liquorice, and a deep caramel scent with some clove. A lot of reviews mention a leathery aspect, which I can pick up once I start looking for it. 

Taste - Smoky, caramely, a bit fruity and tangy (that blood orange note again), cumin. Surprisingly full bodied for 43%.

Finish - Orange (again, a bit sweet fruity and tangy), clove, pepper, smoked whitefish. The smallest splash of water dilutes the nose although adds a hint of rosemary, but opens up the flavor - not that it really needs water. 

Every time I get mad at my corporate overlords at Diageo, a sip of this dials it back a notch - this is one of the most universally well regarded single malts, and with good reason. Also, I think this has led to more of the "a-ha!" moments where people first really start to delve in to the world of single malts than any other whisky I've read about (although mine was Laphroaig 10). Understandably so, in my mind, as the sweet and smoky elements here play perfectly, and deliciously off each other.

92/100



great review!

my first love was Laphroaig 10 as well :]



This one is "special" still, I think, even though I'm probably on my 4th or bottle of it.

As for the smoked fish...you might interpret that sweet/smoky/briny combination differently, that's just what it brought to mind for me.



I just don't understand how someone could prefer Laphroaig of any variety to Lagavulin and even say the Lagavulin is the one with the burnt rubber taste! Just goes to show how unique taste is, to me every Laphroaig is ruined with dirty sour notes but Lagavulin is perfectly balanced, complex and deliciously rich with layers of complimentary flavours. 

Laphroaig just tastes and smells comically like petrol, you are not even sure if they are taking the piss sometimes. Iv given it to people who have never had scotch before and instantly they say petrol or rubber and dislike it.  I like the novelty so pick up a bottle once a year at least but it really is just sugar and petrol to me. 



Great review, pretty much on par with what i would have written.

Had a dram of it 2 nights ago and man do i want a few bottles of this whisky.



Storied scotch of Swanson, and a community favourite? I took these notes a while back when having a dram at my uncle's place. Misplaced them and realized I hadn't posted them yet!

Appearance:  deep golden amber coloured with nice thick legs.

Nose: briney iodine and sweet peat. Smokey charcoal, sweet sherry notes. 

Taste: delicious peaty flavours mixed with sweet sherry and dark fruit. Earthy and woody. Full bodied, oily. Sweetness lingers along with the smoke

Finish: long and smokey. The peat just doesn't go away. 

Rating: 91/100

delicious. I really with this wasn't so damn expensive in Ontario at $118. I'm tempted, but I actually prefer the Laphroaig QC which clocks in $48 bucks cheaper.



Ah, Lagavulin. The land Ron Swanson.

I'll be the first to say this isn't my favourite malt. I like Lagavulin but I always found the 16 quite flat. But I mentioned recently that I'd never had it from a proper glass. 

Well, how can you judge something you've never even tried properly?!

True. So I did. And I found it a lot better. I think it is also the batch, because I found the new one very different. I've included both sets of notes.

Lagavulin 16 43%

Tasted on 2 separate occasions (but same bottle) in late 2014 from a tumbler

Colour: E150a

Body: Medium

Nose: Lots of classic Islay peat smoke with chocolatey malt, some hay and grass, wood smoke, woody spice, burnt oak, soft fruit- Apple and lemon.

Taste: Soft and light. Malty chocolate, smoky barley sugar, soft peat smoke, quite fruity- Apple with developing citrus- Lemon. Then more smoke develops with burnt oak, burning hay and grass, bonfire.

Finish: Short length. Smoky notes fade very quickly leaving a hint of salt. 

73/100

Tasted early 2016 from a Glencairn

Nose: Medium. Fruit and smoke. Some lemon and lime citrus.

Taste: Very smoky and sooty, ash, Lapsang, some fruit, then more citrus. Oily and full. Not sure how I found the other batch light, this is pretty full on.

Finish: Long length. Citrus, lime, peat.

75/100

Same Mark as the new 8yo, Lg5 and Cask Islay. 

I'll admit it's a good whisky. But for ?50, pass me the Oog. Although, I'm always very tempted by the price in France, which I've seen at ?35.



Bought it in a duty free shop in CDG for ?60, considering most shops by me are priced over $100 I figured I got a steal for such a well known whisky. 

Hopefully it lives up to its reputation, i.e. Ron Swanson/scotch it 






Okay guys and gals, I'm going to call out something we all do. We all have those moments. You're at a bar. Someone else is paying for the bar tab. Maybe you're out with work. Maybe you're out with your parents. Maybe you're out with a specific friend. None the less, they have money and that little, evil imp shows up on your shoulder. The server gives you the Scotch lists, and the imp points out that one dram. You know the dram. It's the one you normally don't order as it's a little more pricey. Not super pricey, but just pricey enough it stops you. And you order it.

Now some of you may not have this problem. Perhaps whiskey is affordable. Or you aren't evil. You're what I like to call "lucky". In my province, this dram is Lagavulin 16. So many bars near me will charge you $12-16 a dram for this wonderful, wonderful dram, and that's kinda painful for me, as I'm cheap. So each time my old work brought us out, I was ready to order it, knowing that no one was looking at the bill.

Well, I found myself at a restaurant this last weekend that had it for $9.75 a dram, and decided that it was time to do a proper review on this amazing whisky.

Region: Islay

Abv: 43%

Price: $114.95 (CAD)

Colour: Honey

Nose:  Leather, peat, smooth, orange, salty air, light mint

If you look up smooth in the dictionary, you'll find it was written by someone drinking this Scotch, dressed in a velour suit sitting on an old comfy couch. 

Taste: Honey, peat, light burn, lemon, steak, chipotle, nutmeg, floral salt, chocolate, kiwi

The peat starts growing into a wonderful mol? sauce and then brings you to a field of flowers, drawing you in. The balance on the taste is amazing.

Finish: Brine, soft peach skin, peat, bacon, sand, cloves, peppercorns

There's a medium length on this, and a mixture of flavours. At first the peach skin came in, though this gave way to the smoke and bacon. This is almost the part of the dram I'm confused about. It's goes from smooth to a briney beast, and is a little out of control. Not bad out of control, but like when you are driving down an abandoned gravel road and fish tailing out; sure, you aren't hurting anyone, and it's fun, but you're out of control and need to slow down some times or you'll nearly hit that truck that's coming in the other lane. Again.

Not that I'm speaking from experience or anything.

Conclusion: This is a beautifully crafted whisky. It hits all the right notes, and holds onto your taste buds, especially for 43%. It's smoother than Laphroaig or Caol Ila, and much more open for new whisky drinkers. You have to have this at least once, and especially if someone else is paying for it.

85/100



Basically, I've had longer finishes that are more complex, so when I compare this to other whiskys I've had, I give it only an 85.

Which, by the way, is quite high. Highest score I've ever given out was a 92, and that was for a 32 year old IB of Ardbeg. I've given out 2 91, 1 90, and 3 89 (I think).



I love the peat on this. Still not certain whether I like Talisker more than this one. I'll need some more tasting

115 CAD (86.5 EUR) is quite a lot! Is all Scotch so expensive for you guys? As reference, Lagavulin 16 is about 40 EUR where I live.



can't speak for Europe, but in the States this - even compared to expensive scotch is expensive. The expensive of the expensive scotchs if you will (stuff you can pick up around town; not limited or special editions etc). But it is by far the best in my opinion. But I won't claim to be an expert, I'm far from that if I'm being honest. I've just drank a lot of scotch and that's my favorite.

In the States this would run around $120 USD (90 Euros); Talisker would be somewhere around $70 - $80 USD (60 Euros) - CAD is about even to the USD. So we're paying around a 30% premium for it.



State minimum pricing is usually different for each state. Here in Michigan i just picked up a bottle of this for $105 out the door. Looking at the price from people in other states is flawed because of state minimum pricing laws.

Here is the minimum pricing list for my state. http://www.michigan.gov/documents/dleg/Price_Book_1-30-11_thru_4-30-11_342054_7.pdf



Only one bar in my area serves this, as far as I know.  After reading a couple of reviews on here I decided to make my way over to Happy Hour and give it a try.  

I got one whiff of it and was immediately delighted.  A few meticulous sips later, I was in love.  

I've since returned to the bar on a couple of occasions to spread this joy with friends.  Good times were had by all.  
