Hello Scothit. Been too busy for a long time to write any new reviews. However I decided to taste and write a review about Lagavulin 8, as it seems to be the subject of the current community review. I bought the bottle almost a year ago, near the date it was released (i think). So it?s been open for a while and is about halfway gone. I don?t think it hasn?t changed much since opening. To the review:

Lagavulin 8, 48% abv.

Color: Light yellow

Nose: First, apples and peat smoke. Sharp refreshing citrusy. Some sweetness behind the smoke, like some lemon cheesecake. Very sharp citrus indeed.

Palate: Much more smokier than on the nose, pretty dominant but simple smokiness. The spices KICK in.  

Finish: Some sweetness arises, vanilla, coconut. At the end, smokiness makes the finish extra dry and a bit oaky. Some fruitiness on the finish. And definitely the citrus.

Nice and tasty, but not quite enough. On the nose it feels like there is something behind the overpowering citrusy, but there just isn?t. It is just that simple on the nose. Even a drop of water didn?t help to get behind it. I would say that the whisky is just too young to get any more complexity. I?m not saying it?s not good. It tastes very nice and is a good smoky Islay whisky. However, the sharp citrusy is pretty dominant on the nose and gets back in the finish also.

All in all, it?s good, but seems kind of a waste, as it would get better by maturing it for a few more years. 

Points 84/100



LOL. I wouldn't say I hate it.

I just can't believe that the same distillery that makes the Lagavulin 16 made this.



What result would you expect from a whisky that's half the age, higher in proof, and lacking whatever wood treatment they use to sherry-ify the 16?

I agree, it's not very 16ish. But I can 100% see how it's from the same distillery. The throughline is even more obvious when you toss the 12 CS into the mix.



Sure. I'm just saying that the result is exactly what we should expect from a half (or two-thirds) aged versions of those others that we're already familiar with.

I'm probably just reading your "can't believe that the same distillery that makes the Lagavulin 16 made this" comment too literally. If so, feel free to ignore me. :)



I agree that it's disappointing, but I'm not sure what exact whiskies you're saying it's showing badly against from Laphroaig and Ardbeg.

Ardbeg 10 seems like the closes to Lagavulin 8, but neither of those are NAS (obviously), so I'm confused. 

QC?



Interesting interpretation. I woulda thought Lagavulin's strategy was to maintain their "stately gentleman of Islay" position among those others you're referring to, but maybe not. Sales are sales.

In any case, if you don't like Lagavulin 8, you should probably skip Ardbeg 10. They're in the same ballpark.

EDIT: "stately" instead of "statement"



Am I the only one getting a strong cocoa note? There's definitely some chocolate coming through mid to late which boosts this from pretty good to damn good.

Some salty people in this post though. Yeah it's nothing like the 16, that's okay. They're both different and good.

Actually the 12 is my least favourite up front, but have 3-4 drams and put it back on the shelf for 1-3 months and god damn does it open up.



Am I the only one

Probably not



Lagavulin 8 Year
Single Malt Scotch Whiskey
Region: Islay 
ABV: 48%
Price: $53 in North Eastern U.S.

Poured neat into a Glenclarin and let rest for 10 minutes.

Color: Very pale gold, white wine

Nose: rich leather and smoke, bit of cereal, bit of sugar, vanilla, a bit of fruit, bit of ethanol.

Taste: initially you get, smoke, vanilla, honey, crisp slightly bitter citrus, mild alcohol burn.......... then, within seconds there's an explosion of flavor and you get, salt, burning ocean driftwood, spices, ginger, white pepper, more smoke, honey, and vanilla.

Mouth feel: Rich. Think, campfire pudding.

Finish: Extra Long finish. The smoke, sugar, vanilla and honey notes just continue on and on pleasantly.

Overall: Great whiskey. You must throw out your prior price vs. age notions when you consider purchasing this bottle. Typically, $50+ for an 8 year old whiskey seems wrong - especially considering for $30 more you can buy the Lagavulin 16 - which is essentially proof that God loves us, in whiskey form. However, this is still wonderfully complex, age notwithstanding. Overall, It's very impressive. It's less balanced than Lagavulin 16, a bit more aggressive with less smoke and brine, but it definitely packs a big flavor punch, bigger than the 16 in some ways.

"Would I buy a bottle?" Rating: Yup! I'll keep a bottle of this on my bar at home and I may also keep one unopened in storage due to it being limited addition and possibly worth quite a bit more years down the road. It's rumored that they only released 80,000 in 2016.

For you Lagavulin fans, here's some info about the distillery:
https://www.whisky.com/whisky-database/distilleries/details/fdb/Distilleries/Details//lagavulin.html



proof that God loves us, in whiskey form

Yup



It's less balanced than Lagavulin 16, a bit more aggressive with less smoke and brine, but it definitely packs a big flavor punch, bigger than the 16 in some ways.

That sounds right to me, too. I'd add that the 8 is a little more generic. Like tvraisedme says below, "there's no shortage of young peated whiskys" and this Lag 8 is pretty interchangeable with many of them.



How does the taste profile differ from the Lagavulin 16?

Also, if its 8 years younger, that should be noticeable on the palate correct?



taste profile differ from the Lagavulin 16?

stronger flavors, more pungent peat, more oily mouthfeel. it's definitely the better of the two.



I'm noticing more and more people like the 8 better than the 16! I'm not sure where I fall. Honestly, I like them both tremendously and while you can tell they are both Lagavulin, they are pretty different. My mood dictates which bottle I reach for.

Would you stock up on the 8 then? Before it's all gone?



So you feel like this Lag 8 is really "Lagavulinish"? Like, if you had this in a blind lineup with other young bourbon-matured peaters, it would stand out as the Lagavulin?

It didn't seem that distinctive to me.



You're correct that the 8 fewer years in the barrel are noticeable on the palate. The 8 has louder flavors and more noticeable alcohol burn. It's more hot and aggressive with individual flavors really being noticeable. i.e. The citrus, vanilla, white pepper, salt and smoke all stand out individually. 

The 16 is much more subtle and balanced. It is not less flavorful than the 8, in fact I taste and nose more flavors in the 16,  but the 8 extra years in the barrel sitting by the sea lower the ABV and make it more mellow and smoother than the 8. When you sip the 16 the numerous flavors swirl and blend together in a very well balanced concoction without the sharpness of individual flavors peaking out, with perhaps the exception of smoke, which is very prominent in the 16.



8 extra years in the barrel sitting by the sea

I thought most of Lagavulin's stock got shipped to the mainland to mature in Diageo's big central belt warehouses.



That may be so, I'll look into that because I'm interested in their process. 

Thanks for the info!



The 16 is much more subtle and balanced. It is not less flavorful than the 8, in fact I taste and nose more flavors in the 16,  but the 8 extra years in the barrel sitting by the sea lower the ABV and make it more mellow and smoother than the 8.

Neither the 8 or the 16 are cask strength: they are both diluted before bottling, the difference being by how much. 



This is a nicely done review of the 8, 12 and 16 that I found. I think it will further answer your question.

Reviews #23-25 - Lagavulin 8 (200th Anniversary), Lagavulin 12 (2014), Lagavulin 16 https://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/5pw540/reviews_2325_lagavulin_8_200th_anniversary/?st=J4FOH0ED&sh=3f355327



I think the 8 is well-worth getting for peat-lovers, if they can buy it for around $65 or less. However, I doubt I'll buy another after mine is gone (unless I find a trove of them for a great deal). I find it very similar in overall effect to the more available and slightly more affordable Laphroaig Quarter Cask. 

Very different from the 16, thanks mainly to the lack of sherry casks and the higher proof, moreso than the age difference alone. If the 16 was bottled at 48%, I'd feel more charitable toward it.



Nose - Smoke, coconut. The smoke has a kind of sweetness to it, somewhere between peaty and campfire. Cranberry sauce. Pine. Sour apple jolly rancher. 

Palate - A powerful punch of smoke. Grilled meat. Coconut, pine, and some of that jolly rancher comes back from the nose. Medium thickness. 

Finish - More burnt meat, wood smoke, and a little oak if I search for it. Long. 

Overall - 83/100. It?s pretty one note, but good for a simple smoky pour. Sits well between the slightly less smoky Talisker 10 and the more smoky Laphroaig 10. I will say, I am very pleased with Lagavulin putting an age statement on an 8 year old whisky, as well as bottling this at 48%. 



Lagavulin 8

Thanks /u/SparkTrader for a sample.  This one is made for the 200th anniversary of Lagavulin. And is bottled at a higher ABV (48%) which bodes well.

Islay, 48% ABV, ?60

Tasted neat from a glencairn, rested 20 min.

Color It looks like white wine yet it?s still coloured somehow.

Nose: pepper, burning sticks, orange, toast, rain, lemon. Not bad, but nothing really complex or strong.

Palate: pepper, cardboard, ash, orange, semi-watery. Despite the slightly watery mouthfeel, I really like the taste here. It?s scoring big points here.

Finish: Medium, slight ashiness, walnuts, lemon. It tastes good. Do you know. that feeling where you want to say more but just can?t think of anything? I got that now.

Conclusion: I prefer it to the 16, still not perfect. But it at least makes me want to try the 12 CS. Maybe I?m just not talkative today or something. Anyway on the next one, bunnahabhain moine the ultimate (gotta have that tartan).

Score: 84



Hello Scotchit!

Last night was a whirlwind of several whiskies, tequila, mescal, vodka and being drank under the table by a group of very jovial Russians. Sitting in a blur of scattered shot glasses and sharp eastern facial features, being told for the second time not to dance on the table by the not so amused bouncer, I suddenly realised now was the perfect time to detail my thoughts on the Lagavulin 8 year old sitting to the side of me, 2:18am according to my phone.
I had my last dram around 4am this morning but not before going through around a third of a bottle, it?s main use to wash away the taste of tequila and coriander shots (do not ask). Would you believe, my notes are not as intricate or detailed as my mind had lead me to imagine, however here?s what I wrote, albeit a slightly less crude version. 

Colour: Off white

Nose: Raw sugar, honey, chamomile tea, vanilla cream, old batteries, subtle iodine and smoke. Not really any complex or rich aromas, but everything present comes through boldly.

Palate: Hazelnuts, white sugar, agave, light syrup. Not so much smoke, but soot and ash, very light and relaxed. 

Finish: Huge rush of fruit and spice. Cantaloupe melon, greengages, white grape and pineapple. Something my phone has autocorrected to ?gushed? but I don?t think that?s quite right somehow. Cracked pepper, chili flakes and a bit of vegetable oil.

I?ve had quite a few young indie Islays and there?s definitely some similarities between them, lots of under ripe fruit and almost overpowering sweetness. Peat dissipates with age but surprisingly it never is the most prominent flavour in these drams. Worlds away from the likes of Octomore where it so obviously dominates. The difference here is where the indie bottlings are usually quite one dimensional and ?flat?, the Lagavulin actually has character. What presents as a rather light and non offensive nose and palate fails to hint at the explosion of fruit experienced on the finish. Rather took me by surprise the first time. Overall, not a bad dram, definitely a good summer whisky in comparison to the wintery rich, heavy notes of the standard 16. It was a great decision to bottle at 48% too, any less and I don?t think we?d be seeing such a great development and it would certainly loose its silky mouthfeel. Right then, time to find the aspirin. 86/100



PM me if inappropriate on this thread, but do you remember which mezcal you had?

Sounds like you had a fun night.  Will definitely keep my eyes open for the Laga8.  Thanks for writing it up!



I'm guessing so as well.

...because that makes sense. 



Sounds like a helluva night, so thanks for being acute enough to jot down review notes. I've been waiting for the reviews on this to start trickling in and it sounds like you liked it (and those notes sure sound like something I want to buy a bottle of).

One question: when you say color is "Off white", would or could this be the greatest unicorn in the whisky world, a Diageo OB whisky that isn't pumped full of E150?



Seriously, WTF?! I mean really, WTF?!??! If your whisky is going to market that lightly colored, why not just forgo the E150 altogether? Does Diageo own it's own E150 production and subsequently slaps internal consumption requirements on its subsidiaries. Is there an E150 consumption bonus for the master blenders at Diageo? I know producers have been doing this for 100 years and it's nothing new, but really, it's just stupid in this market segment.

I don't think the consumer of Lagavulin (not the most easily approached whisky) gives a damn about consistent color or any of that nonsense. I would think it's precisely the opposite, the Lagavulin customer is most likely concerned about authenticity of the product. I never once looked at Ardbeg and thought "well, this isn't good, look at how light yellow it is!".

I get why Johnnie Walker is dyed, but not this stuff. If Edrington, who has far more reason to use coloring given the nature of their single-malt products, can manage to not dump E150 in everything, then Diageo should stop being tone-deaf and put away the coloring (and that goes for every single-malt producer). </rant>



Lagavulin 8, 48% ABV 

I like Lagavulin. Yeah, the 16 is colored and watered down, but to turn out such vast quantities of a quality (IMO) product at 16 years old at a reasonable price, there are tradeoffs. 

This is a limited edition for the distillery's 200th anniversary. Got mine for $62, others have found it in the high 50s. I applaud them for the age statement. Anyone who's tried Kilchoman knows that Islay scotch, at least, doesn't need age to be great. I don't usually comment on color but this is remarkably pale. 

GF notes: "It smells like it's going to burn my insides. A lot."

GF notes: "You know in the summer when you go to the beach and forget your chapstick and your lips get burned and you keep licking them and thinking it'll get better? Yeah."

GF notes: "You know when you eat a bunch of delicious berries, and you eat that last one and it tastes terrible and you can't get the taste out of your mouth? Yeah."

This is not a complex whisky. It's young, it's simple, it's straightforward. And I really like it. There are unfounded rumors about this replacing the 16, but you know what? If they could do it at this price, this proof and this quality, I wouldn't even be mad. 88/100

GF score: "If 100 is wine and 0 is battery acid, 18.5/100"






Islay, 48%, I?m guessing it?s non-chillfiltered with no added coloring but couldn?t find anything definite. Special bottling for Lagavulin?s 200th anniversary. Rested in a glencairn about 20 minutes.  

Thanks to u/belbivfreeordie for the sample.

Color: Light gold, definitely looks like it's natural color. 

Nose: Smoke, moss, vanilla, hints of cinnamon. Definitely noses like it?s bourbon-aged. 

Palate: Smoldering campfire, peat on the vegetal side, caramel, cinnamon. Lightly sweet with mild fruit.

Finish: Smoke, more vegetal flavors, mild spice. Falls a little flat here.  

Conclusion: It?s OK. The peat doesn?t overpower but I?d like to see more going on along with the smoke. I usually like some sherry or port along with my peat and this doesn?t have those kind of flavors. Nothing objectionable; just ends up not very exciting. 

Buy a bottle? Priced reasonably at around $55, about the same as Laphroaig QC. Just doesn?t do that much for me. 

80/100



One of the employees at Lagavulin intimated that because they were releasing something for their bicentennial (in 2016), they were trying for a whisky that wasn't necessarily complicated or rich (maybe compared to the 16 or 12), but rather something that was drinkable that they could party with.  I think they achieved it.

Either way, I like the 8.



I find it a little too "empty." I find the Laphroaig QC too "woody."

I find the two mixed together are pretty nice.



Oh I have been meaning to review this.  I will hop in on this in an hour!

Lagavulin 8 / 48% / ~$90

Tasted with a bit of filtered Tokyo tap water

A young bottled widely-available "limited" release celebrating the 200th anniversary of Lagavulin.  It's so available it's not even moving off the shelves in Tokyo...

Photo!

For such a young whisky with a nose that I do not like at all--it feels very young and unrefined--the taste is quite good.  I do prefer the Lagavulin 12 to the 16, and both the 8.

Rating: 87/100

121st /r/scotch review



48% ABV

Nose: Damp, earthy peat.  Pleasantly salty and briny.  Spicy, sweet chili chocolate.  Mint leaves.  Rice wine vinegar.  Creamy lemon custard.  Well oiled leather and damp soil.  It's like walking through a Boreal rainforest near a campfire.  Dried wasabi peas.  Rich and buttery.  Smoked salmon.  Well mannered and quite complex for a higher ABV 8 year old Islay whisky.

Taste: Sweet smoke on the arrival.  It seems almost infused with vanilla and icing sugar.  Lemongrass and unsweetened cocoa.  Mild bubblegum, like a piece that has been chewed for a few minutes.  Candied ginger and peppermint.  The peat levels remain at strong, but not overpowering at all times.  Herbal.  Green peppers.

Finish: From sweet to sour in a blink of an eye.  Lemon zest.  The peat dries out and becomes less earthy, more light and airy.  Sea salt and lime.  Honey graham crackers.  Still buttery and creamy, despite the turn to more sour flavors.  Interesting.  Menthol and faint oak tannins.

Well done Diageo.  I really wish this would become a standard bottling, or a yearly special release at the least.  The non-chill filtration and natural color is a welcome addition to a Lagavulin official bottling, as is the higher ABV.  Fresh and well balanced.  Not overly complex, but everything works well together.  At times it seems much older than it is, and other times, it hits many enjoyable younger whisky trademarks.

88/100



Can you say how this compares to the Laphroaig Quarter Cask, the Ardbeg 10, or even the Ardbeg Corryvreckan?

There are some similar notes between those and the Laga 8. I'm thinking about picking one of these up, but curious as to how different it is from other releases I already have, and/or are cheaper.



It's been a while since I had the three you mentioned, they are different, but share many of the same qualities.  The best I can do in order to help give you accurate comparisons would be to look over my reviews of them and go from there.  Regardless of which one you choose, they are all good, quality whiskies.  Off the top of my head, I would say the Quarter Cask and Lagavulin 8 are the most similar.

Quarter Cask 

Ardbeg Corryvreckan

Ardbeg 10



Lagavulin 8

I'm glad that Lagavulin decided to release this age stated, with an abv of 48%.  Two things we see less of these days.

Nose: Peat, smoke, nuts, lemons, limes, windex, underripe peppers, fruit, lemon pledge.

Palate: Smoke, rubber, plastic, brown sugar, mild fruits like pineapple, and tangerine, figs.

Finish:  Smoke, peat, earth, cough drops, toffee, cinnamon, toffee, rice pudding.

This is interesting.  Definitely more fruity notes than I'd expect with Lagavulin  but also some components that I associate with a peated spirit in need of further maturation.  I'm talking about rubber, plastic, cleaning products, and underripe fruit and vegetables.  When it comes to Lagavulin, I'm kind of boring.  I like the standard 16 more than any other expressions I've tried.  Despite rating this significantly lower than other Lagavulin expressions I've tried, I still enjoyed the hell out of it as a fancy sipper and the bottle has gone down quickly.

83/100
