Laphroaig 10, 40%, 50?

One of the first whiskies I bought after discovering Scotch, along with Ardbeg 10. The second Laphroaig review, but this really is one of the most iconic standard expressions of any distillery out there.

Nose: campfire smoke, iodine, caramel, oak, Laphroaig

This nose is, in a nutshell, that really unique Laphroaig character. There's something about it that defies description. It's peaty, yes, it's medicinal, yes, but the combination leads to something greater than the parts. It smells either obnoxiously awful or indescribably delicious depending on who you are. I lean towards delicious. The nose is also extremely harsh to begin with, but mellows out after a little while in an opened bottle.

Taste: Laphroaig, caramel sweetness, iodine/TCP, peatiness, charred oak

Again, something about this defies simple explanation. It's not bourbon, it's not an Ardbeg peat attack, it's just... Laphroaig. It's sweet and smokey and prickly and revolting/amazing (choose your own adjective). 

Finish: long, immediate medicinal attack, fades into peat and caramel, charred oak

Nice, long continuation of the nose and taste, with an immediate iodine sting that fades away over time. There's a charcoal note that sticks around in the back of the throat for a long time. 

Conclusion: It's Laphroaig, what do you want me to say? Love or hate, it stays unique. Personally, I really do like it. It's untamed, it's vicious, it's in your face. The notes are familiar to any Islay fan, but the combination is not until you try this. I had to check my previous scores to score this, but I think this is about right:

Score: 84/100



Love Laphroaig! I just got to try the 10CS at a bar for $10 / dram last week. I definitely fell in love, going to pick up a bottle of that stuff when I can.

Glad I caught this review among the awesome avalanche of Shackletons tonight lol



I recently went on a sample buying binge for a bunch of rather standard bottles so I could try them again and write some reviews and choose some lower cost bottles to add to my collection.  This is aged for 10 years and bottled at 40% ABV.  This is the standard Laphroaig offering.

?

Nose: Peat, smoke, salt spray, barbeque, charcoal, vanilla, burning rubber

Palate: Pretty thin.  Lots of peat.  Seaweed and fishiness.  Vanilla and a bit of sweetness, but not much.  Some off putting medicinal character, much more than I get in the Quarter cask.  

Finish: Medium finish.  Overwhelmed by the smoke and medicinal note.  Some rubber and tar as well.

Score: 82/100

Very nice and classic expression.  I haven't had it in quite awhile, and felt like trying it again to compare it to the Quarter Cask.  Less intense, and much more medicinal.  I very much prefer the QC, and really, all the other Laphroaigs I've tried so far.

?

Older Laphroaig Reviews:



Laphroaig 10 year old 86 proof

It gets its flavors two ways: the maturing happens next to the Saltwater Ocean and gets into the wood as it matures; and when they dry the malt on the malt floors, they smoke it with dried peat to get it to germinate. you must try it at least once, you may fall in love like I did.

90/100



I cut my Islay teeth on the Quarter Cask, and have since had random cravings for heavy peat and been through a few bottles of this as a result.

Nose: Peat, heavy earthy peat. Iodine. Sea salt. Leather. Mud. Wet, dirty socks (in a good way). That glue I liked the smell of in woodwork class at primary school. 

Palate: Earthy peat, like licking a peat brick. Rubber and leather, new pair of rubber soled boots. Brine. Iodine. 

Finish: The earthy note sits for quite a while but the other smoky and medicinal tastes fade faster than I'd like. 

Rating: 85/100

The aromas and tastes in this should be disgusting, but they are not and I keep coming back to them. This is a great plunge into the deep end if you're curious about Islay and at 10 years the peat is still right up front where it should be.   



This is the 400th whisky I?ve reviewed on the whisky network here, and while it may seem like a mundane choice for a ?milestone? review, this is the one that got me in to whisky in the first place, and I still haven?t given it a proper review - so it?s about time I confirm what the other 115 reviews in the archive have for this.

10 years old. 43% abv. Likely colored and chill filtered.

Nose - Powerful despite being 43%. Hickory smoked pork, the ocean, lemon, black and white pepper, vanilla, brown sugar, tar, with some faint red fruity notes. Many say it smells of band aids, but I typically don?t get those unless I?m specifically looking for them.

Palate - Tar, oversmoked pork, brown sugar, lemon, seawater, and some vanilla showing up as it develops. Silky smooth - I remember not needing much water with this one, even starting out when I was easily overwhelmed by pretty much any whisky, and I can see why - I feel like I could drink a whole bottle in a night without realizing it. Despite the ?smoothness?, the flavors themselves are aggressively smoky and briny.

Finish - Stays smoky/tarry, with the lemon, seawater, vanilla, brown sugar, and pepper notes lingering. A bit short and light - this is where the 43% is felt the most, I think.

This was my first love as far as whisky goes, and as such I have a bit of a soft spot for it - but despite having had several hundred whiskies now, this still holds up. There?s a lot of flavor packed in this one, with some nice depth and complexity to them, though I wish they?d follow Ardbeg?s lead with the 10 yo and bottle this at 46%, as I?m wishing for a bit more oomph on the finish. Obviously, the flavor profile isn?t going to suit everyone, but I still really like this one.

88/100



That is creepy :). I may not review quite as often anymore as the little one demands more and more attention, though I actually kind of like dissecting (figuratively) anything new I try.

Picking up on the tastes of any reviewer (when possible) is always helpful with interpreting a review.



400! = 6403452284662389526234797031950300585070258302600295945868444594280239716918683143627847864746326467629435057503585681084829816288351743522896198864680299793734165415083816242646194235230704624432501511444867089066277391491811733195599644070954967134529047702032243491121079759328079510154537266725162787789000934976376571032635033153396534986838683133935202437378815778679150631185870261827016981974...

You can see more digits over at WolframAlpha

I'm a work in progress bot.



If you like Laphroaig, Ardbeg is a good bet. I like the Corry a lot, the Uigeadail is very good too, especially since it sounds like you like cask strength stuff.

Laphroaig 10 CS is great, I've only had batch 7, and a few years back batch 4 or 5 (I think 4?). I had them too far apart to tell any difference.

You don't happen to have any of that old Laphroaig still? Their 60's distillate is supposed to be phenomenal, and is reflected in the auction prices for the stuff.



HawkI, If I had only kept the '57 Porsche Roadster, the '34 vintage Martin D-18, and the silver age comic books that I used to have, I'd be a rich man. Sorry, not only didn't I keep a bottle of the 1970's vintage Laphroaig, but I didn't keep any of the '84 Bordeaux's that I had bought cases of when there were selling futures. I think a case of Lynch Bage (sp?) was selling for around $250 on futures, and is now worth, I don't know, north of $500 a bottle! I wasn't surprised, therefore, when I saw that the 70's vintage Laphroaig 10 was selling in the $400 plus range. 

I think you should try some of the Laphroaig 006 CS. I've had a few tastings, and every time I just can't believe how much smoke they managed to put into that bottle. One dram has enough smoke to last you an entire week! So much so, that I haven't been able to tell what else they packed in there. I do like it, but it's a bit over the top, even for a 70 year old palate. I would strongly recommend that  you, or anyone else reading this post NOT try to drink anything else after tasting the 006 CS Laph, as it will be a waste of good scotch, since anything else will just taste like water after drinking the 006. When I first tasted the 007 I was highly disappointed. Then, after a few more tries, it began to open up for me. It's very different from the 006. Subtle smoke, and so smooth that you can hardly believe that it's 55+% ABV.

I'll keep an eye out for a sale on Ardbeg. Will probably acquire a bottle sooner or later, and wait till the dead of winter to give it a go. I have a bottle of Lavagulin 16 here, which I'm also waiting for winter to open. 



I first reviewed Laphroaig 10 way back in my 49th review about 2.5yrs ago while at a company outing. Granted, this was after a few drinks, so probably not the most reliable of reviews. When I visited Islay last June with my wife, we went to Laphroaig, and claimed the rent for our square foot of land in their peat bogs. When I got home, we saw that the mini bottle they gave was bottled at 40% ABV, while the bottle on my shelf was 43%. So today, as I drain both bottles, we're gonna do a quick comparison of the two, side by side to see if that 3% makes any significant difference. My assumption going in is there will be very little difference between the two. 

I'm surprised at how different they turned out to be. Definitely didn't think that going in. While they hit a lot of the same tasting notes, the emphases of the two were very different, with the 40% being basically a smoke bomb and the second an iodine bomb. this difference showed up on the nose, palate and finish consistently. of course bottling timing could make a difference here, and there was some consistency in the flavour profile, but the variation was unexpectedly stark. 

Overall, I did prefer the 43% as it was more complex and had a better mouthfeel. I still scored it quite a bit lower than when I first reviewed this whisky 2.5yrs ago, but that's probably more about my standards having been raised since then vs. a drop in quality. Big fan of this, though I still prefer the quarter cask to both versions of the 10. 



Great exercise; thanks!

I'm not sure if I've ever had the 40 percent version. From my first pour of Laphroaig many years ago, I've always considered the medicinal/iodine notes to be the defining quality. "Burning hospital, recently extinguished."



I first reviewed Laphroaig 10 way back in my 49th review about 2.5yrs ago while at a company outing. Granted, this was after a few drinks, so probably not the most reliable of reviews. When I visited Islay last June with my wife, we went to Laphroaig, and claimed the rent for our square foot of land in their peat bogs. When I got home, we saw that the mini bottle they gave was bottled at 40% ABV, while the bottle on my shelf was 43%. So today, as I drain both bottles, we're gonna do a quick comparison of the two, side by side to see if that 3% makes any significant difference. My assumption going in is there will be very little difference between the two. 

I'm surprised at how different they turned out to be. Definitely didn't think that going in. While they hit a lot of the same tasting notes, the emphases of the two were very different, with the 40% being basically a smoke bomb and the second an iodine bomb. this difference showed up on the nose, palate and finish consistently. of course bottling timing could make a difference here, and there was some consistency in the flavour profile, but the variation was unexpectedly stark. 

Overall, I did prefer the 43% as it was more complex and had a better mouthfeel. I still scored it quite a bit lower than when I first reviewed this whisky 2.5yrs ago, but that's probably more about my standards having been raised since then vs. a drop in quality. Big fan of this, though I still prefer the quarter cask to both versions of the 10. 



Great exercise; thanks!

I'm not sure if I've ever had the 40 percent version. From my first pour of Laphroaig many years ago, I've always considered the medicinal/iodine notes to be the defining quality. "Burning hospital, recently extinguished."



so i made a post about a company outing the other day: http://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/2petrz/companyorganized_scotch_tasting_oh_boy/

turned out better than i thought it would. so we went to the restaurant, and my boss said if i'm not happy with the guy's selections i can change things up. so i go to chat with the guy who picked the flight and who i talked to on the phone last night (see previous post for details). 

his plan was to start with bowmore 12, then go to Johnnie Gold, and finish with cragganmore 12. i tell him that's pretty much the opposite of whta he should do. he argues saying no you start with bold tastes. i give a wine tasting example, he still doesn't get it, i tell him to stop. i'm the customer and i'm going to tell him how the tasting is going to go. 

i change things up after he argues about pricing and set up a flight of Cragganmore 12, Talisker 10 followed by Johnnie Walker Green label (given those 2 are composite parts of Green, figured it would be a really cool experience). 

anyway, service was terrible, dinner took forever, so by the end we decided to cancel the scotch tasting at the restaurant altogether and i was given the company card to build a flight for everyone at the hotel bar instead. 

i chose a few drams and had some fun with it, telling the group about each one. i asked for input on each too and took notes. so, here they are!

Laphroaig 10 - 40% ABV

Appearance:   light orange.

Nose: fire. Coal. Burning peat . 

Taste: smoked meat. Smoke. Coal. Peat. Ash. Bacon . Nutty. 

Finish: long and Smokey 

Rating: 91


sooo i need a tartan up for my 50th! also before you all comment on it, yes i had a woodford bourbon too... i'll be posting my first 10 bourbon reviews soon. 

hope you all enjoyed this mini-saga!

@review_bot scotch



/u/muaddib99's  reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Bold flavours first???? BOLD FLAVOURS FIRST!

Okay, that is by far the shittiest tasting I've ever heard of. That bartender deserves no money, no help, and I generally hope that he has to face a rough time in the future because he's poor at his job that eventually makes him realize that he's wrong.

Seriously, on what planet does "Bold Flavours First" make sense?



i know he's a  tool. 

he added an auto-gratuity, probably because he knew we were dissatisfied and wouldn't have given him anything. it was honestly one of the worst restaurant experiences of my life.



trust me, i wanted to. i've seen your reviews and called them to find out more too... they even had their monthly tasting night yesterday. 

told the boss from the start that we should go there.. she didn't want to cab everyone. :(

sounds like a lot of people are going to bed early tonight (last night endd at 2:30) so i might cab out there and go for round 2!



haha so true. already was the case actually. 

the marketing guy who was there with us said he wants to do a scotch tasting with his team next year sometime and asked if i would set up the menu and host it. fuck yes.



God that is the kind of boss I want to have/become.

also what an enormous glass of Oban! 



C&A Steak company. 

never go there. 



Hey guys,

Sorry it's been a while. Stuff has been going on at work. Long story short I'm now working part time on the stills and mashing. Which is awesome.

Anywho, some Laphroaig's today. Just a straight official vertical. 

Laphroaig 10 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Full

Nose: Burning hay and grass, smoke, bonfire, huge peat smoke. Sweetness beneath, some fruit, spices, cotton wool, savoury note- Bacon?, sea salt, sticking plasters, iodine.

Water: More sweetness- Vanilla and toffee.

Taste: Soft arrival with some apple, peaty development with salty seaweed, kelp, lots of hay and new moan grass, burning hay and grass, some sweetness, oak, spices, mineral- Flint.

Water: Goes a bit watery.

Finish: Medium length. A little aggressive with iodine and some chilli. 

70/100

The classic, original peat monster.

This was actually the 1st bottle of whisky I ever bought. Less peat with more fruit compared to the 10yo.

After another 3 years it should be even less smoky and more fruity.

Thanks. It's all experience and it builds with time. It's taken me a long time to be able to identify lots of notes in a whisky. 

Laphroaig 10 I found quite hard to like as a beginner because it's quite aggressive, having said that, it is really interesting and intense.



So lately I've been doing a couple of things for my general health. One of the main one is only having 4-6 oz. of whisky per week, and only on weekends. As this is the busiest time of year, alcohol + stress = bad if I don't watch myself.

What does that mean? Well it means all the swaps I've done are not getting reviewed as quickly as normal, and doing a multireview can take a few weeks. Enter the Laphroaig Triple Review.

One other thing I've been attempting is to review all of the whiskies on the Beginner and Advanced list. And I'm happy to say that regardless of my self-imposed, make-my-teetotaler-grandparents-happy anti-stress regime, I've been able to review all of the Laphroaig offerings over a 3 week span.

What can I say about Laphroaig that hasn't already said? They are an Islay giant, their name comes from a questionable history, and they are the only whisky to carry the Royal Warrant of the Prince of Wales. So let's see if it's good enough for Chuck, then it's good enough for me.

Region: Islay

Laphroaig 10 year

A special thank you to /u/kinohead for this sample. He was nice enough to swap with me so that I didn't have to beg and cajole bartenders to serve it without ice.... and for less than $12 a shot.

Abv: 40%

Price: $79.95 (CAD)

Colour: Copper

Nose: Peat, pepper, lemon, medicine, sea salt, faint licorice, vanilla creamcicle

There's some vanilla sweetness, lots of peat, and a balanced acidity to the nose. I'm going to blame the faint smells on the Abv., as that's my go-to whipping boy in these cases.

Reminds me of campfires on the beach, oddly enough. But not ones I'm at, ones I'm down the beach from. Not that I'm stalking them, I just happen to be there. Staring.

Taste: Pepper, fennel, peat, iodine, cumin, little metal/metallic taste

The metal taste sticks around like that one girl at the party who slept over, had a bath, fell asleep on your couch, and then had night terrors the day after while you're trying to watch cartoons and eat pancakes. Dammit Jenn! I didn't hear Bugs' punch line!

Moving on... the other flavours are reminiscent of the Quarter Cask I had before, however they lean more to a pepper/fennel taste than the peat/iodine flavours that were up front in the QC.

Finish: Peat, mushrooms & butter, heat, sour, mineral water, pepper

Nice finish, little bit of burn telling me that this shouldn't have been lowered past 43%. Bit short for my tastes, yet the peatiness is there, which is nice.

Conclusion: Some people like Ardbeg more, and some people like Laphroaig more. I tend to lean towards Ardbeg, as I find it's the bull of the two. Laphroaig 10 tries to be more subtle than Ardbeg 10, and I think there's some things that go against it. The low Abv., the young age, and the peat all make this very difficult. It's good, just not mind blowing. I wouldn't turn down a dram (ever), but I think it's more of a great starting point then a great dram.

76/100




Great reviews, man.  I enjoy it when people do these multiple reviews, and a triple review of Laphroaig?  Fuggedaboutit.

I think I agree with you on the whole Laphroaig 10 vs. Ardbeg 10 issue.  I need to get bottles of both again, but I remember liking the Ardbeg 10 more.  However, Laphroaig has some serious highlights, and beyond the Oog there isn't much that Ardbeg does that interests me.  

I have a bottle of the CS (batch 004) that I'm waiting until the dead of winter to open.  Your review makes me reconsider. . .maybe now?  Like right now, at 10:30am in my office.



Laphraoig > Ardbeg 

It's science. 



Damn, forgot to carry the 1.

Granted I'm speaking as someone who hasn't had the PX or Triple Wood yet, or the lost 15 year, or the 25 year, so I may change my mind as time goes on.



Kinda shocked you never did Laphroaig 10 before, to be honest.

Also, I disagree with your review of it, and you're a bad reviewer and should feel bad.



That's fair. I'm usually shocked when I see people who have reviewed 100+ and haven't done some of the basics. Heck, I still have Glenfarclas 12, Pig's Nose, Black Bottle, and Chivas 12 to do myself. And Pig's Nose is a pain to get around here so that may take awhile.

And yes, I'm still a snob :)



I wouldn't say "opinionated" per say. I try (in my real life and online) to figure out where people are coming from, and why things have happened the way they have. Living in Toronto means you almost have to do that (see our Mayor).

More so I'd say that I have opinions, I share them, I'm ready for them to be challenges, I'm open to having my mind changed, and I don't take things as black or white. Their's downsides to everything.

To elaborate on that, when you read my reviews, the price isn't part of the score. Rather the price is paired with the score. Laphroaig 10 is a good Scotch, and I'm certainly not going to turn it down in the future. However I live in Ontario, home of an anti-alcohol movement that is centuries old and won't die. So I could buy a bottle of a 76/100 Whisky for $80 (CAD). Or I could buy a bottle of, oh, I don't know, a Canuck I love (Alberta Premium Dark Horse) for $30 (CAD), of which I've given a score of 86/100.

The Downside of enjoying a nice, peaty whisky is that it costs me over twice as much as a whisky that is better (IMHO). Others, including better reviewers than me (such as texacer or Uncle Tobys) would probably argue, and I'd be willing to be swayed on this.



I was just joking with you really. I shoulda probably thrown a smiley in there.

I hear you on the price thing, it's gotta be hard with canadian prices.

Laphroaig 10 I can get locally for $39 and is 43% (noticed yours said 40%), so it's a pretty good buy in my parts. 



Nah, I didn't take offense, I like to discuss where I'm coming from on my reviews. It's good to know yourself and where you can improve.

Canadian Prices = Pain. Hopefully they drop a little due to the new deal, but I doubt it.
