Review #6: Laphroaig PX Cask. Aged in 3 types of casks: Bourbon, QC, PX

ABV 48%. ?60,- for 100cl, a travel retail exclusive I picked up on the Stenaline from Hoek van Holland to Harwich. I was really excited to pick this one up because I have been wanting it since seeing it last summer at Schiphol Airport for almost double the price.

Color: E150a.

Nose: Unmistakably PX sherry. A lot sweeter than other Laphroaigs, soft peat, ham baked in honey marinade, light iodine.

Taste: Sherry sweetness, light smoky peat, cinnamon, spicy, peppery, medicinal

Finish: In the finish the marriage between medicinal peatiness and the sweet spices from the PX cask really come forward, and remain there.

Overall: This would be the lovechild if Laphroaig QC and Ardbeg Uigeadail would marry and have a baby.

Rating: 89/100. Very unique and I love that it is a whole liter!

Review 20 is the ?PX Cask? from Laphroaig, a bottle I got from Glasgow Airport about a year ago. For anyone unaware it?s basically the quarter cask but ?finished? in Pedro Ximinez sherry casks for a few months. Happily it came in a one litre bottle so I've still got a bit left after it?s been open for about 6 months.    

?

It?d be fair to say that it has changed markedly over the time it?s been open, when it was first opened the sherry was much more forward but over time it?s really dropped off. I tend to find this the biggest drawback of ?finished? whiskies, over time the notes from the finish vanish ? I found the Talisker Distillers Edition to be really bad for that. I still find this to be good whisky, it?s just that it?s not as good as it was when first opened it.       

?

Nose: Very sweet on first nosing, milk chocolate and vanilla. The bourbon cask influence is quite dominant, only really hints of sherry notes. Plenty of peat smoke but it?s somewhat suppressed by the bourbon cask. A little toffee and just a little sultana.       

Palate: Smoky, sugary bonfire peat gives way to milk chocolate. A little spicy oak and some raisin notes.    

Finish: Long & smoky, the milk chocolate turns to dark bitter chocolate. A little lemon too on the finish      

?

Comments: Pretty good. It?s an absolute vanilla bomb which I find to be pretty ?modern Laphroaig?. I wish they would invest a little more money in quality sherry casks, I love sherry profile Laphroaig and it seems like every new distillery release is dominated but bourbon casks.     

?

87/100



Laphroaig PX Cask (48% ABV)

I don't know who this sample came from. Forgive me.

I have yet to taste anything from Laphroaig I don't like, and love most of it. Some is a bit pricey for what it is (Lore), some is fairly bland (Select) and I admittedly prefer their bourbon finished offerings to wine/other finishes, but frankly those are all quibbles for what is a fantastic distillery putting out fantastic malt at great prices. Seriously: there is no better value in spirits than Laphroaig 10CS for ~$60.

This is a travel retail exclusive. It is matured in ex-bourbon casks, quarter casks, and Pedro Ximenez sherry casks. It's not age stated, but there are plenty of great Laphroaig malts that aren't so that's not necessarily a problem. 

Nose: Laphroaig vegetal peat smoke, iodine, gasoline, a hint of honey, red fruit (grapes, plums), smoked almonds

Palate: ashy peat, more smokey and less funky than Laphroaig often is...then a bit of phenolic iodine, PX influence is subtle but shows up as raisin and apricot preserve flavors, more roasted nuts

Finish: slightly bitter, then smoke and stone fruit, warm but nice for ABV, fades out to long smoke and ash.

The sherry influence on this is pretty muted: certainly more than any of the finished Cairdeas bottles I've had. It's not bad at all, and I like the nutty flavor, but it's not particularly special. I'd rather drink QC, 10CS, or any of the Cairdeas releases I've had (2013-current) over this.

Score: 5.5/10


I couldn't agree more! Actually, the last time I bought some (last month), it was only $50. Crazy! I stocked up.



I didn't do a side by side, but I think the Oogie had a bit more cask influence than this. Its also cheaper and more readily available.

I'd go for that before I tried to figure out how to procure one of these, especially as it's cheaper. Generally I prefer Laphroaig to Ardbeg pretty substantially, but in this case Oogie wins.



Laphroaig PX Cask, 48% ABV, unchillfiltered and NAS, currently only available in travel retail. Thanks to Texacer for gifting me this sample. This has been on my radar for a while to try if I get the chance, but I don't travel internationally too often and last time I did I spent all my money on Japanese whisky (no regrets).

Nose: A nice helping of medicinal peat, but sweeter and more rounded than the 10 or QC. Faint fruitiness; grapes and plum.

Taste:  Not as sweet as I was expecting, but still brings some fruity/winey notes characteristic of a PX sherry finish. Sweet berry jam and a little citrus. Pungent vegetal peat, charcoal, bacon, shellfish/anchovies. A weaker chili/paprika spice note.

Finish: Salty and peaty with some vanilla.

Personally I would give this an edge over any of the standard Laphroiag line, seeing as how I'm a total sucker for the peat/sherry combination and this one brings the sherry out a little more than the Triple Wood. Richly flavored with a lot going on and for me the ABV at 48% is perfect neat. 85/100



Thank you, I love Laphroaig - a visitor brought this for New Year and now it's my favorite. 

You mentioned being fond of the sherry/peat combo - have you tried anything similar that goes further towards the sherry end? I'm keen to explore more now I've had my 1st sherry casked whisky. 



I tried the Ardbeg 10 and am keen to try the Uigeadail but also interested in checking out more sherry oriented whisky now - peated or not. 

This sounds perfect to gauge the sherry end of the field! 



Appreciated,  I keep hearing about the Uigeadail and I can't wait to see what it's like. 

Of course now I'll have to keep your other recommendations in mind too. Certainly enjoying expanding my palate. 



Laphroaig PX, 48% ABV, Islay

Overall:  

So this whisky has been in three barrels: started in American oak, then to quarter casks, then to ex PX (Pedro Ximenez) casks.

This is better than the triple wood, but not as good as the standard quarter cask.  This whisky is a little more on the tannic side than I would like, the PX casks seems to overpower the others.

89/100



As far as non-IB goes:

Laphroaig 25 CS

Laphroaig 10 CS

Laphroaig QC

Laphroaig 18

Laphroaig PX Cask

Laphroaig Triple Wood

Laphroaig QA Cask



Where's the 10? 

Also, this isn't as bitter as QC - not by a long shot.



Hi all, been enjoying some Laphroaigs lately and thought I'd do a little comparative review of three similar drams. All that separates these whiskies is the extra maturation (or lack of) in sherry casks. Interestingly, these are all bottled at 48% and for those who like these things (I do!), are all non-chill-filtered!

Laphroaig PX Cask, 48% ABV

Again, the Quarter Cask with a further maturation, this time in Pedro Ximenez (PX) Sherry casks. 

Nose: Beautiful. Medicinal peatsmoke is perfectly integrated with the sweet PX sherry. Thick fruity notes of prunes, dried fig, and some prosciutto. Hospital gauze, comb honey, smoky bacon, and charcoal.

Palate: Very smooth, much more so than Triple Wood. Thicker and richer mouthfeel also. The arrival is quite sweet, PX sherry of course, juicy raisins, blackberries, and In the middle there are walnuts and oxidised sherry notes. Some oak spice (clove?) creeping in also. Dry coalsmoke and prunes towards the end.

Finish: Gets quite nutty and woody, the sweetness giving way to perky oak spice. Sweet woodsmoke there also, plus medicinal iodine also. 

Score: A - This is what the Triple Wood should have been. The sherry and peat make a whisky greater than the sum of its parts. I think the Laphroaig spirit benefits from a thick, heavy PX sherry cask to stand up to the medicinal peat onslaught. I will enjoy this one, but probably back to the 18, 10 CS or 1/4 cask once it's done.

Thanks for reading!

Reviews 71-73



Quarter Casks aren't actually a quarter. They're, like, three quarters. 

No idea where the name came from, since it doesn't make a lick of sense.



I already done posted it here. 

Specifically this picture.

I think from the front it was quarter cask, bourbon barrel, bourbon hogshead and sherry cask.



10 cm ? 44.18327 potrzebie

WHY



Bottled for Global Travel Retail

Bottled 2011

Cask type   Bourbon, Quarter, Pedro Ximenez Sherry

Strength    48.0 % Vol.

Bottle size 1000 ml

Worn_boots already wrote a great review for this one (linky), so here are my impressions.

Nose: Peat, smoke, red currants, quite sweet sherry (Pedro Ximenez is very sweet) that hides behind the peat but is very present, green cardamom, vanilla

Mouth: sherry, peat, pepper, cinnamon, cardamom and some hints of oak

Finish: medium long, peat, smoke, sherry, chili, red currant candy, sugar sweetness

Comments: This one should have been great; often there is a magical metamorphosis with Sherry casks and peated spirit into something great - this one is good - but not great. Some subtilities of the 10 are taken away and replaced with some plumb px sweetness. Generally it just doesn't feel well integrated. Maybe a bit more time in the cask would have done good for this one. Love the red currant notes thou. :)

83 points (price, value, etc are not a factor)



Laphroaig and a kitten...this post is going places.

Also a good review, although I had big hopes for this PX cask and the recent two reviews of it made me all sad in my little heart :(



Reviews #108, 109 & 110

Laphroaig PX Cask Travel Retail, 48% abv, Islay

Nose: Syrupy sherry, extremely creamy? rich peat pudding, candied figs, hazelnut butter, salty milk chocolate? orange tree aroma and pear skin. Musty old basement clothes.

Palate: Sherry up front, quite dull at first but opens up nicely with spicy peat and a mellow toasty oak. Oily but moves quick. Antiseptic sweetness, clamato juice with molasses stirred in, pipe tobacco.

Finish: Slightly bitter, turns to a cooling mintyness. Lingering woody smoke, a touch of iodine and sulfur. Tobacco and black tea lingers about.

92/100

I seem to like this a bit more than most people, it?s very good. Thanks again to /u/Uncletobys for this sample!




Certainly so! And especially considering the initial price it was released at! shame it's so limited though.

I've yet to be dissapointed by Laphroaig, they're quickly overtaking my #1 favorite peated slot (Kocking Ardbeg off the throne).



This will be a quick one... Posting from my mobile in a hotel room in the miserable city of Geneva.

Some details about the bottle:

And onto the review, tasted neat!

While this bottle was fairly cheap, I think around $65 USD, I prefer it less than other Laphroaigs. It has been rounded off by the sherry maturation, but more in a way that dulls the fiery spirit without imparting much sherry characteristic. 

Rating: 86/100

84th review



Laphroaig PX Cask

Thanks to /u/slackerdude for the swap.

From what I can tell, this is basically the Laphroaig QC plus some time in a PX cask.  48% abv and possibly travel retail exclusive?

Nose: Peat, smoke, honey, heather, iodine, brine, leather, lavender, vanilla, canvas, strawberry jam, sweet red wine.  Very nice contrast between the briny peaty harshness and the softer sweet qualities.

Palate: Sweet chewy toffee, seaweed, salt, sweet oranges, vanilla ice cream, raisins, rice pudding, very distant sherry notes.  

Finish: Ash, peat, smoke, vanilla, salt, toffee, honey, smoked fish, floral mint.

For me, the beauty of this whisky is the contrast between the phenolic, peaty, smokey notes with the gentler sweeter ones.  It's a dance that's continually evolving.  Lately, I've tried to be more linear in how I describe the flavours and smells I'm experiencing, but this scotch really jumps around in a beautifully complex way.  It would be great to do a comparison with the standard Quarter Cask, I feel the PX may have rounded things out and accented the sweeter components a little further but the dram certainly doesn't scream "sherry".  I'd buy this is a heartbeat (at the right price) and honestly, I think I'm going to go buy a bottle of the Quarter Cask after tasting this.  It has been missing from my shelf for far too long.

I must say, as much as Ardbeg has consistently hit home runs for me, I've tried far more Laphroaig expressions and they have all been good, very good, or great.  What a distillery.

I've no problem giving this a 90/100.

Other Laphroaig reviews:

Laphroaig 10 - 86/100

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength Batch 4 - 91/100

Laphroaig 13 Battlehill - 88/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Origins - 88/100

Laphroaig 18 - 90/100

Laphroaig Quarter Cask - 89/100
