Laphroaig 18
Islay, 48% ABV, NCF?, E150, ?70 for 700ml

Nose: Phenolic peat and smoke. Wood and oak char. Caramel and pepper. Cinnamon and cloves/allspice. Brown sugar. Something fruity (clementines?). Red apple and sweet malt. Flinty. Slight alcohol sting. 

Almost like a smoked caramel apple. Definitely coastal, but the bourbon cask influence makes this an altogether sweeter affair, with a great deal more wood spices. However, I think the balance on this is a bit off and it's a bit of an overly sweet, yet harsh, Laphroaig.

Taste: Pepper and medicinal smoke. Toffee and red apple. Sweet malt and light honey. Cinnamon. Slight oaky bitterness and oak char. Brine. Lemons. Light alcohol sting.

Very smoky and medicinal, but sweetness carries through. A little bit of bitter oak tannins and lots of spices. The balance is still somewhat off, and I think this is both too sharp and spicy, and a little too sweet. It just lacks a bit of that rounded Laphroaiginess that the 15 and 10 both exhibit.

Finish: Quite nice! Lengthy. Bourbon influence is apparent. Warm smoke and iodine. Brine. Toffee and oak. Light fruitiness - apples and peaches. Salt and pepper.

This is wonderfully warm and satisfying. Definitely the nicest part of this, the sweetness perfectly counteracting the smoke. Classy and lovely.

Summary: I just can't love this as much as the 15 - it doesn't do the same thing, presenting a more spicy wood-forward approach. It's almost less Laphroaig, despite being harsher. 

It almost feels like part of the reason the 15 was retired was so that more refill casks could be used in the vatting for the 18, with the extra 3 years of maturation hopefully counteracting some of the harshness. I could be wrong, of course, and Laphroaig really do send all their used casks to Ardmore as they claim they do.

Regardless, this seems to have a central conflict between the bourbon cask sweetness and the medicinal smoke, which hasn't been tamed as much by the 18 years in wood as you'd expect. And it's not even that sweet! It's just sweet for a Laphroaig. 

Score: 86/100
Not as bad as I made it sound.




Congrats on the 100 reviews! Laphroaig 15 is a favourite of mine, it's shame it's discontinued. Luckily I have a sizable stash.

/r/CenturionClub



I made ages ago as a joke. It's currently private and empty.

Should we make it a thing?



It'll just be a sub for saying "Welcome to our newest member, <person>!"

Can't think of any other content that would fit there.



Figured as much. 

It'd be kind of cool to know who are members though. Off the top of my head:

Jan-12, texacer, UncleTobys, Allumina, TOModera, rockindaddy and me. 

Probably missed a fair few (relatively inactive) posters.



Congrats Dworgi, looks like in the end you overtook me! :) Now I've got some work cut-out to get up to the century club as well.

Enjoy your new flair!



congrats on the 100! i always pay a little closer attention to your reviews

and yeah, i miss the 15...twas one of my favorites before it disappeared...



Nicely done.. Laphroaig is the drink that got me into whisky, it is and will always be my favorite distillery.

I look forward to your next 100 reviews!



Congrats on the 100 mark, Dworgi.  Sounds like you and I started drinking whisky at about the same time, but you've clearly been more motivated in your reviews!  Way to go!

I'd sure love to try some of that Laphroaig 15. . .



Laphroaig 18

(48%, NCF, ex-bourbon casks, "white tube")

?

Thanks to u/Throzen for this sample!

?

Nose: Seaweed, soft smoke, caramel, nuts, brine, vanilla, damp wool, light citrus

Taste: Honey, citrus, bitter greens, damp oak, vanilla, nuts, 

Finish: Leather, seaweed, honey, lemon, ginger, ash

?

The nose is gentle, primarily coastal notes with some sweetness and musty/vegetal notes in a ?walk along the coast after a rainfall? kind of way. Sweet on initial entry, quickly giving way to a rising bitterness before continuing an interesting interplay of sweet vs bitter notes through the finish. Oily texture.

This bears a much closer resemblance to the experience of the 25 CS than the younger stuff, maybe ~2/3 of the way there (pretty great considering that's also at ~1/3 the price). Decent complexity, good balance of peat and sweet with notes that show refinement and yet are unmistakably Laphroaig. Really too bad that this one is discontinued as it?s quite lovely stuff.

?

87/100



What Slandy said :) 

Nothing officially written from Laphroaig, but if you do a search for "Laphroaig 18 discontinued" it'll pull up a number of 3rd party sources that anecdotally say Laphroaig ambassadors and distillery tours have  mentioned that by end of 2016 the 18 will be phased out for the 15, though it's already been replaced for awhile in some markets. 



Here is a article I found about the 18yo being discontinued.

http://wordsofwhisky.com/laphroaig-18-phased-years-end-2016/



Blind sample tasting?. or at least that?s how it started. I knew which dram this was the minute I poured it into the glass. Oh man, that peat! Thanks go out to /u/kdz13 for hooking it up! Notes are primarily from the blind tasting with additions in italics and score revisions as noted.

?

Laphroaig 18yr ? 48%

?

Average score to date: 79.1

?

This is a fantastic whiskey, with one of the best finishes I?ve experienced. I was a little disappointed with the taste, but only because the nose was so wonderful. I?m very happy with Laphroaig so far, and don?t get any of the bandaid or clinical notes others find. 
If you can find a bottle of this for under $100, I think it?s a great whisky. Most stores in my area carry it for $130+ which is a little too much. 

?

Would I rebuy a bottle? Yes



Laphroaig 18 year old 92 proof

92/100



A few years ago Laphroaig discontinued the 15 year old and replaced it with the Laphroaig 18. Obviously they produced enough in recent years and can afford to do so. I like the 18 year old and I wanted to know how it compares to its preceding version so I got a sample of the Laphroaig 15:

Laphroaig 18

Islay, 48%

nose: medicinal, tar, soft barbecue smoke, sea breeze

taste: oak, prickling on the tongue, medicinal, peat, bitter-sweet fruit drops, floral, sweet and fruity, malt (and hops?), hint of chocolate

finish: long, barbecue smoke

The barbecue smoke, peat and the medicinal notes are well balanced and not as heavy as with the 10 year old. You notice the longer cask influence, it's sweeter and fruitier and pretty complex.

93/100

Summing up I can say the Laphroaig 18 is an improvement compared to the 15 year old: It's more balanced, rounder, more complex and better in the finish. Furthermore the 18 year old has a higher ABV which goes better with an Islay malt and compared to the Laphroaig 15 it is unchillfiltered.



This is quite a rebellious opinion. A lot of the dedicated fanbase of laphroaig is still a bit miffed and sad the 15 yo has gone, and been replaced by the mellower 18 yo. 

I agree with your assessment, but this is also the order in which I tasted them. Love the 18 and then got a dram of 15 in a bar. Couldn't figure out why people prefer the 15 yo. Maybe everyone just loves whichever they get first.



Heard so much about this one, but a full bottle is prohibitively expensive. Really glad I finally got a sample in a swap.

Aged 18 years, 48%ABV, NCF

Nose: Light peat. Varnished wood. Baked apples. Vanilla. Sea spray. Marine rocks.

Palate: Big salty peat. Wood soaked in salt water, like an old boat. Big oak note. More apples, fresh. Iodine. Smoked snoek (a tasty fish). 

Finish: Long. Salty, rich maritime notes and dry wood. 

Rating: 8/10

To be honest it didn't quite live up to the hype. I found the nose not as exciting as the palate on this . It is still a great whisky, don't get me wrong. The peat notes are there but scaled back, letting the maritime character play more of a role, and some great old wood notes in here too. But if I had to pick an 18 year old peated Islay, I'm sticking with Caol Ila. 



Laphroaig is one of the Scotch distilleries owned by Beam, Inc. (Ardmore being the other), meaning it is now owned by Suntory brands. It is one of 3 distilleries on the south coast of Islay, along with Ardbeg and Lagavulin, which are likely the 3 most renowned distilleries for making big, brawny peat monstrosities, though Bruichladdich seems desperate to catch up with their Octomore line (which actually has a higher phenol content), not to mention Port Charlotte. Kilchoman is certainly making a name for itself too.

48% abv (nice). No statement on the label regarding coloring or chill filtration.

Nose - Freshly sliced lemon, vanilla, brown sugar, plenty of clove, black and white pepper, plenty of smoke, seaweed, brine. A nice mix of tangy, sweet, oceany smokiness.

Taste - Starts fairly gently (surprising for a Laphroaig), with vanilla and brown sugar. The development brings the more aggressive notes ? I start getting the black and white pepper, a tangy, citrusy bite, the smoke, and the oceany, seaweedy salinity.

Finish - Black pepper, ginger, smoke, and tangy lemon at first amplify then gently fade.

I really enjoy this ? it?s a subtler, more complex, but more easygoing Laphroaig ? of course, when we?r e talking Laphroaig we?re speaking in relative terms here. If you want a big, peaty smack in the face I?d encourage you to seek out Laphroaig?s 10 yr Cask Strength version. If you?re looking for a good, but not overwhelming dose of smoke to help compliment the sweet, citrusy, oceany elements in a Scotch though, this one will do quite nicely.

90/100



Hey guys,

Sorry it's been a while. Stuff has been going on at work. Long story short I'm now working part time on the stills and mashing. Which is awesome.

Anywho, some Laphroaig's today. Just a straight official vertical. 

Fast forward 8 years:

Laphroaig 18 48% (Old Version)

Colour: E150a

Body: Full

Nose: Rich and complex. Classic Laphroaig peat smoke offset by a creamy vanilla sweetness. Toffee, medicinal notes- TCP, cough syrup, bandages, bacon/cured ham note, lots of liquorice root, aniseed, honey. Soft fruit in the background- Apple and a coastal mineral note- Flint, seashells, briny sand. 

Water: More aromatic- Cooking bacon, more coastal- Brine and seaweed then more creamy and sweet- Candy and cinnamon rolls. Tropical fruit- Mango, pineapple, banana.

Taste: An instant creamy sweetness quickly develops into huge Laphroaig peat smoke, but more sweet and less harsh than the 10yo. Burning grass, ash, charcoal, TCP, but a toffee and vanilla sweetness throughout, burning caramelised sugar. Building oakiness- Liquorice and aniseed. Big coastal note- Sea salt and shells, kelp, wet granite and flint, iodine. A little tropical fruit towards the finish- Banana, mango and pineapple.

Water: Less peat, more sweetness. Fruity sweetness- Apple and raisin, more tropical fruit too- Mango and pineapple.

Finish: Long length. Coffee then lingering briny peat.

83/100

This was actually the 1st bottle of whisky I ever bought. Less peat with more fruit compared to the 10yo.

After another 3 years it should be even less smoky and more fruity.




Thanks. It's all experience and it builds with time. It's taken me a long time to be able to identify lots of notes in a whisky. 

Laphroaig 10 I found quite hard to like as a beginner because it's quite aggressive, having said that, it is really interesting and intense.



So lately I've been doing a couple of things for my general health. One of the main one is only having 4-6 oz. of whisky per week, and only on weekends. As this is the busiest time of year, alcohol + stress = bad if I don't watch myself.

What does that mean? Well it means all the swaps I've done are not getting reviewed as quickly as normal, and doing a multireview can take a few weeks. Enter the Laphroaig Triple Review.

One other thing I've been attempting is to review all of the whiskies on the Beginner and Advanced list. And I'm happy to say that regardless of my self-imposed, make-my-teetotaler-grandparents-happy anti-stress regime, I've been able to review all of the Laphroaig offerings over a 3 week span.

What can I say about Laphroaig that hasn't already said? They are an Islay giant, their name comes from a questionable history, and they are the only whisky to carry the Royal Warrant of the Prince of Wales. So let's see if it's good enough for Chuck, then it's good enough for me.

Region: Islay

Laphroaig 18

And to finish up, the Laphroaig 18 year, another sample from /u/kinohead, who is awesome sauce.

Abv: 48%

Price: $179.95 (CAD)

Colour: e150

Nose: Leather, sea salt, peat, lemon, hot chocolate, brown butter, cloves, thyme, heat, vanilla marshmallow

Time has taken the 10 year Cask Strength mixture and let it grow into a very subtle, sweet/herbal mixture of flavours. Like being in a leather bakery kitchen by the sea side, this leather daddy's nose will make you beg for more.

Awkward yet?

Taste: Currant, peat, salt, sour oak, ginger, mild genoa salami, hot pepper chocolate bar, lemon

This is almost what I'd believe Bunnhabhain 18 would taste like if it was peated. Almost a Birch Tree Sap flavour. Wait, that's not relatable. It's tannic, like tea, but not overly, and almost bitter, though there's a lot of heat maybe? But that mixes with the spices to make ginger.

Okay, now I'm even confused. This one tastes good, has different highs and lows, like a manic stewardess.

Finish: Chocolate, peat, light caramel, nutmeg, pear, bacon, licorice

Simpler finish than I was expecting at 18 years and 48%. Not that I'm complaining, it still hits all the right notes I want from a Laphroaig, and the peat has morphed into some great flavours, I was just expecting something... I don't know, like the Cask Strength, I guess. Unique or different.

Conclusion: So the question comes down: Is this worth $100 more (CAD) than the 10. And at first, you'd probably say no. It's only 8 years old. But then you notice it's better Abv. Granted it has e150 (or at least looks like it) and the Cask Strength is better, however I can't get the Cask Strength so go help someone across the street.

It's a good dram. Not great like some of Ardbeg's, not over the top, but finely crafted. Don't turn down a dram if offered.

85/100

Overall Conclusion: So where do we go from here? Well overall, I think Laphroaig does some things right. They have a distinct medicinal, peaty flavour that almost sits perfectly between Ardbeg and Caol Ila on the flavour map. They introduce a nice sweetness and they try different things. They even offer an 18 year at an Abv. higher than 43%, which is a lot more than I can say about some other distilleries. I think they'll always be tied for second with Caol Ila for flavour, and there isn't anything wrong with that.

Scotch reviews #119-121, Islay reviews #33-35

Other Laphroaig Reviews:

Laphroaig Battlehill 13 year

Laphroaig Quarter Cask



Great reviews.  Can confirm the 18 I sent was 48% - it was purchased in the States.

I've still gotta review the Springbank 10 and Laphroaig Battlehill 13 you sent.



Great reviews, man.  I enjoy it when people do these multiple reviews, and a triple review of Laphroaig?  Fuggedaboutit.

I think I agree with you on the whole Laphroaig 10 vs. Ardbeg 10 issue.  I need to get bottles of both again, but I remember liking the Ardbeg 10 more.  However, Laphroaig has some serious highlights, and beyond the Oog there isn't much that Ardbeg does that interests me.  

I have a bottle of the CS (batch 004) that I'm waiting until the dead of winter to open.  Your review makes me reconsider. . .maybe now?  Like right now, at 10:30am in my office.



Laphraoig > Ardbeg 

It's science. 



Damn, forgot to carry the 1.

Granted I'm speaking as someone who hasn't had the PX or Triple Wood yet, or the lost 15 year, or the 25 year, so I may change my mind as time goes on.



Kinda shocked you never did Laphroaig 10 before, to be honest.

Also, I disagree with your review of it, and you're a bad reviewer and should feel bad.



That's fair. I'm usually shocked when I see people who have reviewed 100+ and haven't done some of the basics. Heck, I still have Glenfarclas 12, Pig's Nose, Black Bottle, and Chivas 12 to do myself. And Pig's Nose is a pain to get around here so that may take awhile.

And yes, I'm still a snob :)



I wouldn't say "opinionated" per say. I try (in my real life and online) to figure out where people are coming from, and why things have happened the way they have. Living in Toronto means you almost have to do that (see our Mayor).

More so I'd say that I have opinions, I share them, I'm ready for them to be challenges, I'm open to having my mind changed, and I don't take things as black or white. Their's downsides to everything.

To elaborate on that, when you read my reviews, the price isn't part of the score. Rather the price is paired with the score. Laphroaig 10 is a good Scotch, and I'm certainly not going to turn it down in the future. However I live in Ontario, home of an anti-alcohol movement that is centuries old and won't die. So I could buy a bottle of a 76/100 Whisky for $80 (CAD). Or I could buy a bottle of, oh, I don't know, a Canuck I love (Alberta Premium Dark Horse) for $30 (CAD), of which I've given a score of 86/100.

The Downside of enjoying a nice, peaty whisky is that it costs me over twice as much as a whisky that is better (IMHO). Others, including better reviewers than me (such as texacer or Uncle Tobys) would probably argue, and I'd be willing to be swayed on this.



I was just joking with you really. I shoulda probably thrown a smiley in there.

I hear you on the price thing, it's gotta be hard with canadian prices.

Laphroaig 10 I can get locally for $39 and is 43% (noticed yours said 40%), so it's a pretty good buy in my parts. 



Nah, I didn't take offense, I like to discuss where I'm coming from on my reviews. It's good to know yourself and where you can improve.

Canadian Prices = Pain. Hopefully they drop a little due to the new deal, but I doubt it.
