And now it's time for my third consecutive review of a sample from /u/Dramonaut. 

Disclaimer: I'm not a Laphroaig fan. I tried this awhile back and didn't like it, but I've had a lot more peaty whisky since then. Time to give it another shot. 

Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood

Strength: 51.3%

Color: Golden brown. 

Nose: Minty and smokey. Peat and a bit of iodine. A little bit of fruit. 

Palate: Sweet and sour, with some fruit influence and tart peat. Chocolate and toffee pop out, with some complementary smokiness. 

Finish: Medicinal and fruity. Smoke lingers. 

Summary: When I first tried this, I really didn't like it very much. The smoke and peat were overpowering while the port influence was far too faint. This seems to have changed after sitting in the half full sample bottle for awhile. The peat has calmed down and the fruit is a little more pronounced. Nice stuff. 

I still like BenRiach 17 Solstice better though. 

Score: 87/100 

Scotch Review #95

Whisky Review #194

@review_bot scotch 'BenRiach'



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's BenRiach reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



So, a while back, /u/bigmoneysalsa posted asking if anyone wanted to buy a sample of the Laphroaig Cairdeas Port Wood, so obviously (because I'm not dumb) I did. Later, I found a bottle online and I bought that way before I got that sample, figuring I could just resell it if I absolutely hated that sample. Then, I moved house.

Since then, I've not done a single review. Now, we're more or less settled, if a lot of things (minor things, like lights in all the rooms) remain incomplete. So I wanted to post a review, and this sample was the one I wanted to review the mostest. So I did.

Did I make a huge mistake buying a bottle before sampling?

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2013 Port Wood Edition
Islay, 51.3% ABV, NAS, NCF, no E150, 5cl sample courtesy of /u/bigmoneysalsa

Nose: Charcoal and carbolic smoke. Freshly crushed black pepper and brine. Red currants, raspberries and rhubarb. Pine and cedar. 

The main notes are sour fruits and a sharp, vibrant smoke. Lively throughout, with an intriguing woody note just at the edge of the glass, before diving in for a proper sniff. The port influence here is prominent, but that medicinal Laphroaig quality is definitely slightly gone - I could quite easily mistake this for a Caol Ila. 

With water: More sourness, a bit less smoke. Much more port. Whether that's what you want is up to you. 

Taste: Full bodied. Charcoal smoke and dying embers. Black pepper and salt. Sweet red wine (aka. port) and red currant. Bitter oak in the background. Limes and and a hint of vanilla mousse.

Big; really big. Lots of flavours, lots of complexity. Much more like a Laphroaig here, but it still has that sharp, carbolic peat smoke of a Caol Ila rather than the warm smoke of a Laphroaig 10. Less sweet, more of a bruiser. The whisky is much less overtly sweet than on the nose, really letting the peat and fire run the show. Very slightly creamy vanilla, wafting around.

With water: Actually a bit more peppery. Slightly less sour and more sweet. Bitterness has really died down. This bit's somewhat better with some water.

Finish: Long and strong. Tobacco and ashes. Slight earthiness. Dried fruits and port. Quite dry and oaky towards the end.

Definitely a wine note on the finish, but the peat isn't drowned out by it. I'd compare this favourably to my G&M Caol Ila 18 Sassicaia, which gets a bit drowned out by the wine. 

With water: Somewhat kills it, unfortunately. Definitely muted, but still there and still pretty damn good. I prefer the finish undiluted.

Summary: My initial reaction from the nose was that the PX Cask was pretty close to this. However, this has a lot more complexity than that. My next thought, that I still kind of hold to, is that this is basically the Caol Ila Sassicaia I have, but better because it's not dominated by the wine notes.

Overall, I don't think I could make this a daily drinker - it really requires you to concentrate to savour and enjoy it over time. However, this is definitely a bottle that I could break out for guests that I know enjoy whisky and would be able to appreciate it. A whisky made for advanced drinkers, if you will.

If I've made it sound like this is anything but epic, I'm sorry - I'm nitpicking. It's without question an excellent whisky, and at its retail price (hell, even a good 50% above it) absolutely worth it. If you see it, buy it. 

Score: 95/100
Pink Laphroaig!



but that medicinal Laphroaig quality is definitely slightly gone

This what I hedge my bets again'st. Bought two with the hope that the Portwood would completely rid the whiskey of its medicinal character and just bring fruity sweetness to balance the smoke. I hope I am right, but judging from this review I may just be.



It's not all gone. It's more like a really ashy smoke now, less medicinal. Comparing it to the 10 CS I have in my glass right now, and it's definitely toned down, not gone.

The QA Cask is actually the least medicinal Laphroaig I've had. You might enjoy that - it's like a smokey bourbon.



K, I've just heard a lot of "I don't like Scotch because it's too smoky" on /r/bourbon, and it's something I'm sensitive to. =)

Even comparing Laphroaig to Aberlour to Glenkinchie is hard, using any of those (and thus ignoring rum/port/madeira/wine/etc. cask whiskies) and saying "this is what Scotch is" is just wrong. And it bothers me.



Laphroaig Cairdeas Port Wood, 51.3% ABV

Matured in ex-bourbon for 8 years and finished in port pipes for 14 months. Bottled in 2013.

Nose: The port arrives first with notes of dried berries and figs, with a hint of chocolate. Citric and tart: lime juice and leaves. Plastic and rubber. Green peppercorns. Fresh flowers, dried grass and dead leaves. Earthy peat, iodine and brine take a backseat.

Taste: Medium-full bodied and hot on the palate. Tannic, peppery oak. San Pellegrino Aranciata Rossa... maybe even some Chinotto bitterness. Apricot and grapefruit skin. Wheatgrass and honey. Grilled fennel over charcoal. Leather. Floral and sweet peat mixed with salty seaweed. Almond and tea tree oil at the back.

Finish: Mulberries and lemon zest. Earthy peat smoke. Cinnamon, aniseed, saffron and bay leaves. Coffee and cigarettes. Long and warm with umami-like savoury MSG notes.

I expected this to have more rich porty sweetness. Instead, it?s sour and citrusy with a savoury finish.

Very good, but not like omg-this-is-the-best-thing-ever good.

90/100

Review 195-198



More refined and delicate compared to QC

Perfectly put about the Triple Wood.



I liked the Triplewood as well. Maybe a little more so than the QC, but the price increase isn't really worth it. 

Portwood is all hype. 



Portwood is all hype.

True, but it's still very good, just not #TOTESAMAZEBALLSTHISISAWESOME



QA is no big deal. I asked about it when I was at Laphroaig and they didn't want to bring it up, apparently it was a bit of an embarrassment for them.

It's kind of the Blasda of Laphroaig.



It's kind of the Blasda of Laphroaig.

http://i.imgur.com/wGk0G.gif



Mine's smoke and ash all the way down, with hints of meatiness and spice.

I got those notes too! With bonus fruit.



Wait until /u/texacer hears about this...

He LOVED him some Cairdeas



Preferably something I don't have. I currently own bottles from the following distilleries:

UPDATE - I have ordered the following:

THANKS FOR PLAYING!



Glencadam! The 15 was damn tasty.

And I was joking about PE. 14 isn't even out yet.



I thought you meant a 14yo PE. Silly me.

I'm ashamed to say I've never tried a Glencadam. It's always been on my radar but I never got around to it. Shortlisted.



Auchroisk?

I've got a bottle of the Flora and Forna 10yo here and it's great. Could review it for you tonight if you wanna wait.



I could recommend something more expensive if you like ;) but it really is a cracker. 

Soft, fruity and with a big clove spice.



Cheap is good! I'm going to order it, can't be bothered waiting for your review.

Current Cart Status: 



I almost ordered a Miltonduff when I was ordering more Amruts. Maybe it was a Macduff. Can't remember.

Banff is sorta hard to find and expensive. I've been looking, with not much luck.



Pretty sure you missed Ardbeg. =)

Tamnavulin? Teaninich? Balmenach? Fettercairn? Deanston?

Granted, all of those have terrible reputations, but oh well.



Good catch, added.

I won a sample of this unreleased SMWS Balmenach when I guessed a couple of whiskies at a tasting. It's kinda crappy.

The two T's are a bit ehhh. Almost ordered a Fettercairn once. Tried a few Deanstons and I'm not in a hurry to order any.



I'm just listing distilleries, to be fair. I've had a Deanston and Teaninich, not the rest.

Loch Lomond. Braeval (tried one, not good). Tullibardine (legit quite good). Tomintoul (not great).



I've tried Inchmurrin (Loch Lomond) and it's pretty nice. Also tried a couple Braevel (Braes of Glenlivet). Tomintoul 14 and Peaty Tang are good.

I don't think I've had a Tullibardine. Which one to get?



I had their entry level Sovereign and liked it - simple, clean, malty. 

Ordered a sample of the Rum Finish recently. 



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2013

(51.3%, matured in ex-bourbon barrels + finished in ex-port casks, 2013 limited release)

?

Thanks to u/Devoz for this sample! You really made me work for it? the parafilm put up a fight.

?

Nose: Plum, bbq chicken wings, mesquite wood smoke, milk chocolate, blood orange marmalade, rose petals, hint of brine and rubber

Taste: Strawberry, plums, butterscotch, ash, brine, nutmeg, bbq flavoured and wood chips

Finish: Salt, smoked ham, wood, leather, cinnamon

? 

The nose is dominated by sweet smoky bbq meat. The peat is fairly faint, with a slight minerality to it. Some rich and jammy fruits emerge with time (plums, blood oranges) along with a delicate floral note. The hint of brine is the only clue that this may actually be a Laphroaig. Sweet and syrupy on entry, quickly followed by a puff of ashy smoke. The brine is stronger by the back end, with the flavours taking a more savoury turn now. 

This is a great tasting dram, but interestingly not as immediately identifiable as a Laphroaig. What is it with these peat + port drams? Pairs together very well, though like with the Longrow Red the port seems to curtail the stronger peat and core spirit characteristics. Maybe a little more surprising in this case as it?s a finish instead of full maturation. In any case, it?s too bad this type of combo is not as easy to find as it?s certainly one of my new favorite combos. Ridiculously easy drinking.

?

90/100



Glad you enjoyed. I have this feeling you may also be keeping your eyes open for future peat + port releases in the future. I keep dreaming of a port matured Octomore. 

The yearly Cairdeas releases are always a treat, great pricing for a high proof and interesting Laphroaig. Hope they keep it up. 



I keep dreaming of a port matured Octomore.

Too much milk already... I'm not sure this would work that well.  Very interested in seeing how it comes out though.



Blind sample tasting, courtesy of /u/Johnysteaks, thank you! Per the usual, the sample was tasted blind initially, with notes in italics added during the second (revealed) tasting if I found anything important.

?

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2013 ? Portwood ? 51.3%

?

Average score to date: 83

?

Feels out of balance. Instead of the flavors complimenting each out like in the Orpheus and Uigedial, it?s like the sweet and peat compete. Heh, I?m a poet. Anyway ? the Band-Aid notes that came through on this one really put me off, I?ve had a couple of Phroaggies and never picked them up as heavily as I did in this dram. Considering the price point, I would rather give the 15yr a shot instead of picking up another bottle of the Portwood Card. if it were still on the shelf, and I don?t get the secondary demand for it at all.



Greetings Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  after the debacle that was Feis this year, I thought I was going to be SOL when it came to this year's Cairdeas.  So far I've had the Ileach and Origin (see links below) and have loved them both.  Those who aren't friends with Laphroaig on Facebook, basically the Portwood went on sale to the Friends of LaphroiagTM this last spring and after 3 hours they sold out more than 22,000 bottles.  They said that there might be a next round during this fall.  Well lo and behold, I found some out of California, miraculously.  My obsessive scouring of the internets for Whisky deals pays off.  So now I present:  Laphroaig Cairdeas 2013 Portwood Edition 102.6 proof

sofa king good. I keep finding new things in its amazingly balanced complexity.   somehow they managed to create a haromny of peat smoke and fruit.  its quite extraordinary.  I love me some salty sweetness.  its like a dessert. After the Feis sell out I tried blending some Laphroaig CS and Quinta Ruban and while good... does not compare.... so score?  highest ever:  

99/100




Called it.

Do I get a prize?



ahhhhh, i've been trying to find this dram on the internet for over a month now, to no avail :(
It sounds absolutely dreamy. Whisky-wise, living in Australia sucks...

this review makes me sooo jealous... bought 2012 Cairdeas today, and I'm loving it, but this just sounds magnificent.



Bit of a crap day in my country (politics, don't wanna get into it), so I cracked open a sample of this fine dram to take my mind off things a bit. I have a bottle of the Cairdeas 2014 and it's one of my favorites, so was excited to try this.

NAS, 51.3% ABV, finished in port pipes, NCA, NCF

Nose: Classic Laphroaig signature: Mineral peat, brine, iodine,rubber. Some nice meaty notes. Burned fruits. Black cherries. Raisins. Light spice, cloves and nutmeg. Old books. 

Palate: Earthy peat. Salt. Redcurrant jelly. Smoked salmon. Coffee with milk and sugar. Plum pudding. 

Finish: Long. Smoked meat. Red fruits. Woodspice. Bit of fresh road tar. 

Rating: 9/10

This is a lovely dram, thick and heavy peat with some nice fruity notes. Like the 2014, the finish doesn't overpower, but adds to the classic Laphroaig profile. 



Cairdeas, for those of you who aren?t familiar, is Laphroaig?s annual ?limited? edition. Per the back label, this one ?has enjoyed double maturation in bourbon and port wood casks to create an exceptional balance of our signature peat flavour with tangy citrus fruits and a floral finish?. 

NAS. 51.3% abv.

Nose - Fruity, tangy, powerful (it is Laphroaig, after all), and quite smoky. Blood oranges, red grape juice, a kind of oceany saltiness, blazing charcoal grill, raspberries, plenty of black pepper, band aids. If you?ve had port matured whisky, and you?ve had Laphroaig, it?s pretty much about what you?d expect, in a good way.

Taste - Honey, vanilla, raspberries, red grape juice, and blood oranges on entry, giving way to a mouthful of charcoal smoke, oversmoked pork ribs, black pepper, and seaweed. The fruity and traditional Laphroaig-y elements play quite nicely off each other here. Medium-plus body.

Finish - Nice, big finish that goes for a while. Smoke, smoke, some more smoke, tangy berries/blood oranges, black pepper, and seaweed. Largely a continuation of the palate, but the smoke that comes in on the development sticks around in a big way here.

This one?s reputation on /r/Scotch is pretty well deserved, I?d say. I certainly enjoy port finished whiskey, just not quite as much as the next guy, typically...it seems most people enjoyed MWND more than me, for instance, though I did quite like it. That said, I?m quite happy I came across some more of this, as the port influence adds quite a nice extra dimension to Laphroaig?s powerful medicinal, oceany, and smoky qualities, though it?s not terribly complex overall.

89/100



dry rub

S&P brah. Not complex at all.



Nice review, thanks.

If you've tried the kilchoman port wood, how do the two compare in your opinion?

Thanks again...



this was the last dram I tried in the night, which explains my notes. I'm posting this mainly so you can see the progression of intoxication, and shouldn't be taken as a reliable indicator of the whisky. 

Nose: peat, smoke, fruit

Taste: tons of peat, ash, smoke, fruit

Finish: long, smoky

Score: 88/100

delicious. I'm too drunk to get good notes on it, but damn there's good quality here.



Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin

Thanks to the person who made this swap happen (they've been asked not to be mentioned) for this swap!

So I'd be remiss if I talked about some (not all) of the special editions if I didn't try mentioned and review some of the (not all) Cairdeas offerings.

But first: What the heck is Cairdeas? Well it's the word for Friendship in Gaelic. Make sense? Not really. Well, it was made for the distillery's popular friends program. And comes out during the Feis Ile festival as a special edition. It's been going on since 2008. 

So we'll start with Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin. This is from Feis Ile 2012. It's NAS. There's rumors that half of it spent 7 years in Quarter casks and the other half in refill ex-bourbon casks for 13-21 years.

So that's a little crazy. A cask strength Quarter Cask/Hybrid Laphroaig? This could end up bad.

Let's see how it tastes.

Price: N/A in Ontario anymore... (dammit should have bought it)

Abv: 51.2%

Colour: Butter

Nose: Peat, pear, lilac, nutmeg, sea air, prickly, kiwi, roasted pine nuts

Quite prickly. The floral notes in the 15 year is showing up again, yet the additional Abv. has added to it and ramps it up quite a bit. There's also a nutty note here.

So far, not shit. I'm impressed, this is nice and strong. My wife is not a fan.

Taste: Nutmeg, peat, cocoa, sugared lemon rind, cinnamon, pepper steak, peach, chocolate milk

If you don't like spices, or overtly spiced things, with an earthy mixture, you'd better walk away. Like my wife did (from the whisky, not me, I'm not single, don't PM me your boobs/dicks/boob dicks).

There's a chocolate milk note that Laphroaig comes up with after awhile. It eventually takes over here, and the other notes kinda take a back seat to it. However before that, it's tasty.

Finish: Peanut, salt air, anise, curry powder, peach cobbler, vanilla, smoke

It finishes with a lot of nutty, spicy, and sweet notes. All well built up. It's a good mixture of young, ovaries to the oak strength with some complexity to edge out the usual issues with youth.

Well, other than the fact that your frontal lobe doesn't develop until you hit 25 and thus you aren't able to calmly approach all situations without it going through your emotional center of your mind. But that more so applies to people and thankfully not whisky, luckily.

Conclusion: This is really tasty. It's a good blend of youth and age, it has some complexity to it, and I really, really wish I bought a bottle when I found it.

That said, it's not setting off memories. It's a definite buy, it's tasty, and at times it'll burn the shit out of you or send random spices mixed with sweetness that kinda doesn't work. I can't really bash it too much, I can only say that there is better.

86/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood 2013

Thanks to /u/Lord-of-the-manor for this hard to find dram.

Are you new here? If so, then you don't remember the sheer, ball gargling, house shopping love that comes from this whisky. Hell, it's still here.

And if I was more Hipster-esque, then seriously I'd be annoyed. However I'm not. just because something is popular doesn't mean it sucks or doesn't suck or etc, etc. Oog is amazing. Tobermory isn't that great (Editor's Note: To me). Two good examples of popular things I both agree and disagree with.

And if you feel that anything popular isn't for you automatically, I just have to say the following: All the cool kids are breathing.

I need to hand in my opinion. This could end up being the thing I hate.

Anyway, continuing on with the Friendship series, we have the 2013 Feis Ile offering, Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood 2013, which frankly, I'm surprised I ever received. Every trade, hunt, and generally begging, failed, until I finally received it.

Twas a good day. 

Anyway, this is a ex-Bourbon cask whisky that is finished in port pipes. And if that doesn't sell you, then check your pulse, and then realize you may not like port, and that's okay.

Abv: 51.3%

Colour: Ruby maroon walnut

Nose: Plum, BBQ chicken, mesquite, dates, strawberry, mint, mustard seed, ginger, spruce trees in spring

Wow. Lots of complexity.  Tons of fruit. Much spices.

Funny doge's aside, this nose is one of the best I've encountered in a long time. The Peat and salt air from Laphroaig have developed these intricate flavours and spices and holy shit this is good.

Taste: Licorice,  strawberry, currant, peat, black cherry, cola, Salish

Not a shitty Black cherry soda either: No, I'm talking full on, tasty, real cane sugar, costs too damn much, fuck I can't have caffeine, but I want it, Black Cherry soda.

Damn I miss pop.

I'll admit, the nose is still better than the taste, yet this is a sweet, tasty dram.

Finish: Being at the beach by the ocean, eucalyptus,  cinnamon,  nutmeg, rhubarb,  watermelon, smoke, strawberry

It's odd: I lived on an island as a kid, and my mom left eucalyptus in the front hall, so I am reminded of the smell and walking into my childhood home, yet mixed with being at the beach, and I lived nowhere near a beach nor by the ocean.

So I'm confused.

Yet this is tasty. Complex fruit, tons of smoke, and yet it retains that Laphroaig identity.

Conclusion: Well... believe the hype... wait, but I'm part of the hype now, so... uh... believe me?

Go try this yourself. It's tasty. They have taken Laphroaig, evolved the different elements (brine, peat, medicinal), added in additional flavours from the port, and balanced it all. It set off memories, and has a great depth of flavour.

And yes, I'm nitpicking saying it's not as amazing as some other whiskies I have had, however it's up there as one of the best. Buy this if you can.

89/100



It's an old SNL skit-Hans and Franz? "We're here to pump you up!"

They used to say stuff like "Believe us now and understand us later!"
You said "believe the hype... wait, but I'm part of the hype now, so... uh... believe me"

I dunno. Its a weird connection.



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014

Thanks to /u/usquebaugh_ for this dram!

So we did last year's Cairdeas, which was amazing, and one of the better "new" drams I've had in a long time, this must be better, right?

And thus why I am doing these reviews, because hard to find bottles are always a roll of the dice. You never know if something is going to be really nice (see above) or really shitty (see later albums from Metallica).

Up next, Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014. They start with first-fill ex-Bourbon casks and then finished for one year in Amontillado hogsheads.

Now you might be asking: What the fucking hell does any of that mean? Where are my pants? Why can't I juggle? Why does my kid cry at night?

Well, let me answer some of your questions.

First-fill ex-bourbon means that the cask was used for bourbon, shipped to Islay, and then used for this dram. This allows more of the vanilla and sweetness to enter into the whisky. Bourbon casks reduce over time compared to sherry casks, so this is a good thing.

Amontillado is a sherry. It's characterized as being darker than Fino and lighter than Oloroso. Sherry is a fortified wine, and in this case, it's made in Spain. Not details though, however sherry's influence on a cask is harder to diminish, so it shouldn't matter as much.

Abv: 51.4%

Colour: Dull orange

Nose: Orange rind, peat, strawberry,  sea air, sugared cranberries,  vanilla

So it looks like Orange, and smells like bitter orange, and then the sugared elements of the bourbon show up and say nothing, because elements don't communicate. Though they do balance it out.

Oh, and to answer your question, your pants are probably on your legs, or on the floor. All depends on where you work, what time it is, and if you live in a glass house.

Taste: Tequila, orange juice, prickly, ginger, chili flakes,  C-plus soda, chocolate milk

Not shitty, shooting tequila; like good, properly aged silver tequila. Which isn't the first time I've had something like that. It's way too prickly too; detracts.

And that chocolate milk has shown back up again, and taken over. It's too bad, because it was growing into an interesting orange/tequila flavour.

You can't juggle because you haven't practiced enough. As this isn't /r/juggle, I'm assuming you can't. If you can, great. Note that it only really helps if you are picking up at a ren fair. Or trying to distract your boss.

Finish: Mushroom, orange, campfire, medicine, peat, cocoa

Earth. Do you like earth? Cause it's a mouth full of ash and dirt. Dirt, dirt, orange, dirt. I don't mind earth, but this is unbalanced.

What a surprise? A peated, known to be earth whisky, mixed with an earthy spirit finished whisky.

Your kid cries out for a plethora of reasons, all detailed by people who know way more than I do. It sucks, I hope it gets better, and this is one of the hundreds of reasons I'm not having kids. Maybe a muzzle will help.

Conclusion: It was a nice idea. In theory, it should work out great. Everyone likes Laphroaig PX. So they should be trying other types of sherry.

And just look at it! It glows orange, and tastes of oranges! That's pretty cool. A nice amount of acidity to bring out the different smoky elements and add to a tequila like flavoured: On paper, I'd agree to it in a second.

That said, it just doesn't work that well. The orange is bashed to the side, and the finish is unbalanced. The nose is nice, but not great. Nice try, and I look forward to next years. Good luck next time, and I hope it turns out better in the future. 

80/100




This is very, very similar in taste, texture, and nose to Lagavulin 16.

Have you tried the Lagavulin DE? I would think that that would be closest to Laphroaig PX, since they are both PX-finished. Especially since you say the PX is less intense than Laga 16; the DE definitely fits that description.



Lagavulin DE is just drowned by sweetness. It ends up tasting like syrup to me. 

Laphroaig PX is, IMO, a perfect daily drinker. Enough complexity to not feel same-y, but very much a Laphroaig in all its untamed beauty. 



So I've been saving these up for awhile, as who doesn't everyone enjoy a multi-review from a verbose nerd who loves the sound of his own words?

That's what I thought, you LOVE IT.

Anyway, it's been awhile since I've had Laphroaig. And there's a reason for that. It costs a shit ton here in Canada.

Also it's hard to find in bars.

But for real, Laphroaig is a good distillery, and I'm not going to bash it, yet I'll admit it is not my favourite Islay distillery: It falls to a strong 5th place on Islay. And that's not a bad thing. When you get in fights with Olympic level fighters, 5th is still awesome, even if you don't get your name on a plaque and a shiny metal disk.

So yeah, I'm okay with the 10 year (it's pretty decent), the Quarter Cask is really tasty, and the 18 is a very nice dram. Not to mention the Battlehill 13 is another, very tasty dram. I also like that Laphroaig isn't afraid to put out a 48%. So they do some things great.

Anyway, the real question today, for my 200th review, is: Outside of the main offerings, how does Laphroaig stand up? 

Because we're always asking ourselves that about every distillery. Special, sometimes NAS editions are here to stay. They make money. They try new things. They play to our deepest desire to hunt things out, either through multiple trips and sorting, or learning everything we can, or even just the idea of tracing one across state/province/country/territory/intergalactic borders.

And some of them continue, growing past the point of special, or others become special, because they are cancelled. I've included them as well.

Let's see if Laphroaig is jumping on the bandwagon, or if they are really heartfelt in these special editions.

Region: Islay




5th on Islay? That's a pile of crap.

Laphroaig > Kilchoman = Caol Ila > Ardbeg > Lagavulin >> Bunnahabhain >>>> Bruichladdich >? Bowmore



I put up the following in response to /u/Dworgi:

Ardbeg > Lagavulin = Kilchoman > Caol Ila > Laphroaig > Bruichladdich > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

That said, I've since gone back, and after these reviews, averaged out my scores for each.

Order is:



Now, take some of those with a grain of salt. Port Ellen, Lagavulin, and Kilchoman have only had 2 reviews each. 

Though the Kilchoman should be getting a boost soon..



See, I tend to go:

Ardbeg > Lagavulin = Kilchoman > Caol Ila > Laphroaig > Bruichladdich > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

EDIT: Turns out, based on my reviews, it goes:

Port Ellen > Lagavulin > Ardbeg > Bruichladdich > Laphroaig > Kilchoman > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

Granted, that could change after I do my Kilchoman quad review.



My disagreement stems from a few factors:

Ardbeg is so unreliable. Alligator was amazing, Ardbog/Auriverdes/Galileo were meh. Uigeadail is great, Corryvreckan is meh. Ardbeg 10 is passable. And then there's Blah-sda. And no IBs unless you have an extra grand to spend.

Lagavulin 16 isn't my thing, Distiller's Edition is downright offensively bland. Lagavulin 12 is great some years, but rubbish other years. There is nothing else unless you have $5,000 to spare. 

Laphroaig is almost rock solid quality. Every Cairdeas I've tried has been at the very least good. Triple Wood is disappointing, QC isn't my thing, QA is a bit bland. But PX, 10, 15, 18 and 10 CS are all great. And their special releases (25, 1989) tend to be pretty good bang for the buck. And there's IBs as well, which gives you an almost infinite amount of ways to spend money on Laphroaig!

Caol Ila is extremely reliable. I like the 12 and 18, DE is a bit boring, CS is great but overpriced. The rest is IBs, which I uniformly think are great, but never truly fall in love with the way I love Laphroaig, but that's personal taste.

The rest is whatever, but Bruichladdich at least tastes like vomit and therefore will never rate highly in my book.


