Review #5: Laphroaig 10 year old cask strength batch 003.

ABV 55.3%. ?63,- for 70cl.

Color: E150a, damnit.

Nose: A punch in the face of peatsmoke, earthy, leathery, iodine, bandages, BBQ?d pork, charcoal, burnt sugar.

Taste: Very oily mouthfeel. Very complex, sweetness lingers in the back as the peat punches you in the face even more than on the nose. Ash, burnt pines. Smoked meat

Finish: Long, warm, as if you ate some good ribs. Lingering smoke is present. Sweetness, charred wood, lasts for ages.

Overall: Wow, this has been the dram I have been waiting for when I first heard about Laphroaig. It?s extremely powerful and a 2cl glass easily lasts me an hour. It?s truly how the regular 10 year old should be.

Rating: 95/100. Easily one of my favorites.




Nice review, I'm really digging the multireviews these days, especially some Laphroaig.

Do you think the Laphroaig 1998 Blackadder is worth it? I have been considering getting a bottle from Blackadder these days, and the more I hear, the better it sounds.



BottleSplitters has done two Blackadders now, and are in the process of buying our third. First was Caol Ila, amazing. Second was Rosebank 21 - haven't tried it yet. Up this month is Springbank.

It's such a cool idea, and when will anyone ever get to try completely unfiltered Rosebank again? That's right. Never.

I've been eyeing that bottle of Laphroaig...



Great reviews!  You've got me drooling.  Agree with your assessment of the 10yo--it's fine, but with the 10CS and the QC I don't see a need for the regular 10.  I've got a bottle of 10CS (batch 004) open right now, and it's the bomb.  It's nearly everything I want in a whisky.  

I love the sound of that Blackadder Raw bottle--amazing. 



I can only find Laphroaig 10's that are 43% ABV in my neck of the world. My parents brought me back a little bottle of 10 from Scotland that was 40% ABV. Weird, but I haven't compared them. However, I wouldn't personally expect to tell the difference.

I will say that I'm currently not too big on high ABV. There's a bottle of Ardbeg Uigeadail in my cupboard I hardly ever touch. Taming the burn requires too much water for my comfort.



Great reviews, I wish I could write notes of whiskey like you can as I'm really confused on how to do so.

I wish more people would try the Laphroaig 10 yr. Although it may not be for everyone, it replaced The Macallan 12yr as my go to single malt (Gasps!). As I have a lunch meeting planned tomorrow, I will be having this with a glass of Laphroaig 10yr neat: http://3.bp.blogspot.com/-r6DOrGJsagQ/UbP3xATWgfI/AAAAAAAAA9U/tD8jXS_xwc0/s1600/photo.JPG



Laphroaig 10 Year Old Cask Strength - Batch #5 - 57.2% - $60

Color: Rusty Gold

Nose: Tobacco, vegetal, peat, smoke, surprisingly little medicinal notes, save for iodine. Mineral water, lightly salty, damp burnt caramel. Can sense the high alcohol but it's not a sharp unpleasant bite. 

Taste: Salted butter immediately. I get this from the regular 10 year, and even more strongly here. Salty brine, peat very strongly, tobacco very strongly, oaky smoke. The oak and smoke are definitely tied together. 

Finish: So long. Peat and Tobacco.

Score: 94/100

Buy Again? Almost certainly, great price.

This stuff is really fantastic. It's, bold, exciting, and delicious. The regular Laphroaig 10 is a great everyday peated single malt, but this is great for when you want something a little bit extra. Recent glasses have been really heavy with the tobacco, although I don't always notice it that strongly.

This is the first of a handful of Cask Strength reviews I've got coming up, and it's easily the most affordable. I regularly see it for $60-70, which is a great price. 

@review_bot 'laphroiag'



/u/Allurex's laphroiag reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Just getting into single malts being a long time blended scotch drinker. I must say this is quite fantastic. It's very smooth for a 10 year old scotch and while being a bit overbearing on the peat it does have a nice taste to it. I think this will always have a slot on my shelf.

I think next I will go for the lagavulin since it is said to be a bit lighter on the peat while still maintaining some of that flavor. I just can't decide between the 12 and the 16. Leaning towards the 16 then coming back to the 12 if I am pleased with the taste. 



There's an empty spot at my liquor store where the Laphroaig 10 year old once stood. Batch 005, just like this one. I saw it when it was not empty but did not buy it because I had JUST recently got that Laph 18. 

Oof. That was 6 months or so ago and that spot is STILL empty. Lesson learned, if you like a bottle, make sure you buy a second one to have on hand for when the first one dies.

Nice review, and truly one of my Favorites. I wish I could do an active side by side with the Laph 18 to see which one I like more.



Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength Batch 005 - 57.2% - Islay   

Nose: PEAT! Not that you needed to know that. But there's so much peat. Motor oil. Punchy salt breeze warmth. Pork. Distant Pears.   

Taste: Sweet warm peat explosion. A beach on fire. Oily feel.   

Finish: Smoke smoke smoke. A glimpse of evergreen forest? Savory, slightly medicinal, stays around for a long time.   

Overall: Great. A smoke-serpent peat bomb. I feel the smoke in my chest. Adding water brings out a delicious sweetness. This is one of my favorites. I look forward to obtaining the new batch 006 to do a side by side.   

93/100   

mods please note, this is my 10th review



Distant Pears

It's this kinda shit that makes me love people's flavor notes.



Lol. I think the top review if you follow the link has my personal favorite set of tasting notes ever, especially for the finish:

http://www.lawhiskeysociety.com/whiskey-profile/786/Convalmore-1984-Gordon-and-MacPhail-Cask-1798



This is my shit dude. I'm almost done with my current bottle tho. :'(

How much did yours cost?



Good evening, Scotchit. Caterpillar here with a new double review of Islay Cask Strength malts and a review of Ardbeg Galileo comprising reviews #48-50 for me.  A local bar keeps a scotch list of hundreds of malts ranging from the ordinary to the ultra-rare and some of the prices reflect it. So, here we go.

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength ~55.7% ABV

94/100

Lagavulin 12 Cask Strength 57.5%

90/100

Ardbeg Galileo 49% ABV

89/100

Well gentlemen, I?m fifty reviews in and, while my liver may despise you all, I?ve enjoyed every minute of the past year of doing this. We?re home to some of the greatest discussion I?ve seen on Reddit and I continue to be impressed by the maturity and class of our members. Here?s to you, Scotchit

Slainte!

-Caterpillar



I continue to be impressed by the maturity and class of our members.

lick my taint!



http://www.flickr.com/photos/onliketron/3102024072/

Fuck yeah that wide!



OK! My mystery giver had no inventory posted so I'm doing this completely blind:

/r/scotch review numba 16

Poured: Neat into a Glencairn

Nose: Fresh, zesty. Lemon, peat, touch of smoke, caramel, iodine, sour barley. Smells like Laphroaig to me.
Mouthfeel: medium/rich. creamy. Has some burn - guessing 45-50% abv
Palate: Sweet, floral, perfumed, vanilla, berry, golden raisins. Medium finish. Wisps of vegetal peat and smoke towards the end. Bready, sour     

Rating: 87/100

This tastes like a Sauternes finish but a quick google search didn't turn up much with a peated Sauternes profile except some obscure bottlings. It's very sweet but the smoke integrates nicely. The sweetness was a little overpowering at times and there were some astringent and sour notes at the tail end of the finish. I really liked the contrast between the floral/purfume and vegetal peat characteristics. Before tasting this, I wouldn't think those would go well together. Overall, a very tasty, unique and well-crafted spirit. 

Guess: Laphroaig Cairdeas
Reveal: Laphroaig 10 CS

/r/bourbon review numba 23

Poured: Neat into a Glencairn

Nose: Sweet corn, brown sugar, faint cinnamon, vanilla, sour, tinge of oak
Mouthfeel: Medium/Thin
Palate: Noticeable heat up front, probably 100 proof. Soft, tropical fruit, banana, toasty. Reminds me of a dessert I used to make with Saut?ed bananas, butter and brown sugar. Aged less than 8 yrs. Medium/short finish of sweet corn, butter, a bit of char, nutty.

Rating: 80/100

Solid, enjoyable pour. A tad young and simple but pleasant flavors all around. No off-flavors. Easy drinking. 

Guess: J.W. Dant Bottled in Bond
Reveal: High West Campfire



damn! I've had Campfire a couple times and wasn't very close with my assessment. I didn't pick up any of the scotch elements. I stand by my score though.

Thanks for the Laphroaig CS, I've been wanting to try that one!



Hello Scotchiteers! Just finished my finals exam a few hours ago and will celebrate the end of the 1st semester of the year with my 8th review! Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength Batch 001. It is bottled at 57.8% I got this for around $55 USD.

Neat

Color: Brownish Gold

Nosing: really smokey, earthy, woody

Tasting: really smokey, numbing, hint of vanilla, salty, brief chocolate

Finish: long savory alternation of sweet and salt

Added water (1:1)

Color: Light Gold

Nosing: fruity, a lot less smoke and peat, creamy

Tasting: boring. real smooth, a lot less peat and smoke, fruit cakes, sweet

Finish: shorter sweet and salt sensation

Taste: 68/75 (Neat)

Value: 15/15

Uniqueness: 3/5

Would I buy Again: 5/5

Score: 91

Conclusion: I love this! I can now see why Laphroaig is a favorite of the community.  This is my first Laphroaig and I feel that I'm sort of cheating since I skipped the Laphroaig 10. I prefer drinking this neat for now. I might try adding less water in the future. I was greatly disappointed in myself for adding too much water. The dram ended up being boring. I'll keep buying this if I keep getting the price of P2200 which is about $55. Got this cheaper than the Caol Ila 12. I still like the Lagavulin 12 CS better though.



55$ is a great price.  

I only drink this neat, haven't found water to be of any benefit to me with this dram.  

Interesting side note, some people toss around the phrase "such and such, gives me a hard on" and it is all in jest. But for me quite literally things get a lil tight below the belt when I have a pour of Laph 10CS at hand.  



Greetings, r/scotch! Rmill3r here with another whisky review. First of all, happy Friday! What's in your glass this weekend? For me, I've got a little sample from a recent swap with /u/Trexid. Here's a cask strength version of one of my favorite distilleries. Bout time . . .  

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength, Islay Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 55.7% abv; ~$69.99 for a 750mL bottle locally; enjoyed a neat dram

Color: Dark golden-amber

Nosing: Rich blast of medicinal peat, dried figs, fresh salty air, warming allspice, spiced apple cider, carmalized brown sugar, a roasted almond nuttiness

Tasting: Huge, tingling, robust mouthfeel. Smoldering peat, spicy Red Hots, toffee syrup, black licorice, briney shellfish

Finish: Seemingly never ending. Indefinite smoke, lip-smacking nuttiness, becomes somewhat complex with floral and herbal tea notes toward the very end

Score: 95/100

Guys........guys....how have I not tried this yet? I bought a whole other bottle of Laphroaig 10 when I should have just bought this. 

It's smokey, it's peaty, it's Laphroaig, it's the closest you'll get to heaven in a dram. I recently had Lagavulin 12 and this is a little sketch to let you know how I feel.

Laphroaig has been one of my favorite distilleries for a while now, but even with them, Laphroaig 10 was sort of a "grower" on me. Laphroaig 10 CS is just straight up my wet dream in a bottle. 

Related Reviews

Scotch whisky review #92

Whisky reviews #119



Yes, this stuff is frickin' awesome!  My bottle has about 1/3 left, and I'm for sure getting another one before it's all gone.  I do have a bottle of Laga 12 sitting unopened on my shelf, but I simply can't trust that it's going to be as boner-inducing as Laphroaig CS. Glad you likey!

And congrats on 92 scotch reviews!  Almost to 100!



Review # 63

Laphroaig Cask Strength 10, Batch 004, Jan 2012  58.6%  Gift. 

Color:  Amber +2, Apple Juice, Coats Glass nicely, Slow Wide Tears.

Nose:  Peat and Iodine, Much more woody than the other Laphroaigs, Mossy Beach Rocks, Algae, Earthy, Carmel, Apples and Pears, Less Smoky than I?d expect, Leather, Wood Rosin, Fennel.

Mouth Feel:  Spicy, Oily, Turns Hot.

Taste:  Salty, Iodine, Peat, Black Pepper, Red pepper, Oak, Seaweed, Wet Grass, Paprika, Cayenne, Cooked Vegetables, Cabbage and Green Peppers.

Finish:  Sea Mist, Iodine, Tar, Woody, Burnt Toast, Scorched Carmel, Butter, Fennel, Figs.

With Water:  Nose:  Cardboard, Peat, Cooked Vegetables, Wet Boat Dock, Oak, Bourbon, Fennel.
Taste:  Iodine, Zinc, Mineral, Wet Rock, Cabbage, Turnip, Pear.

Score:  Nose:  23,  Taste:  22,  Finish:  23,  Balance:  23,   Total: 91

Big, Bold much more woody than the other Laphroaigs.  Peat and Iodine present but shrouded under the oaky and spice overtones.  Long finish, a lot of notes and flavors.  Probably one of the best Laphroiags for the money in my opinion.




Hey everyone, thought i'd do a quickie tonight since this bottle is nearly empty. 

Laphroaig 10 year cask strength. 58.6% ABV. Islay. $80.00 USD

Color: Amber +2

Nose: Iodine, smoke, peat, brine.

Palate: Warming and full. Smoky peat. Salted dried seaweed. Leather and sweet oak

Finish: Long, savory. Smoke presence that is mostly outshone by leather and dusty parchment. Sweet sea air.

90/100



Archived. A note about the price paid: I needed a bottle of something peaty for Christmas over at the in-laws house and their local Bevmo was totally cleared out, all they had left was two bottle of the 10 CS at a way inflated price. Highway robbery but whatever.

TL,DR: hurrr markup, DMHS.



"004 bottled Jan 12"

...lol, Jan-12.



Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength / 55.3% ABV / NCF

tasted neat, then with filtered water

This bottle is from batch 003 Jan.11, and is remarkably pleasant at cask strength without water.  If you've never tried a Laphroaig before, it's the most in-your-face Islay scotch.  Medicinal.  Chemical.  Cask-strength brings it harder; 10 years young takes none of the edge off!

I love the oily mouthfeel, just a notch below CS Springbanks. This 10 yr Laphroaig marries iodine, peat, and phenols in its cask-strength charybdis.  While I don't always have a bottle on hand--my goto Islays being Lagavulin and Ardbeg--it's probably because once I open a bottle of Laphroaig it's gone too quickly!

Rating: 91/100 

14th review

Homepage | Reviews | Buy @ Wine-Searcher



Yes, possibly.  I like salty things.  Herring.  Smoked kippers.  So it probably came quite naturally to me--never disliked an Islay (except the one right now that taste like Pineapples, ssh!).

Laphroaig is not just peaty, it's phenolic and terrible and amazing.  You might enjoy an Ardbeg 10 much much more.  Or Lagavulin etc.
