Admonition: I try to stay positive and non-contrarian on this wonderful subreddit. But I aim foremost to be honest. So fair warning, this is a somewhat negative review, and what's more I'm definitely against the consensus. I apologize ahead of time. Anyway...  

This is: Laphroaig Triple Wood; those woods being bourbon, sherry, and quarter casks. My third 'phroaig, a distillery which I have yet to enjoy. This was a dram enjoyed at my favorite bar. 48%ABV, $60  

Color: amber.  

Nose: medicinal... vanilla, iodine, Sharpie, cracked red pepper, and blueberry.  

Taste: bitter & tangy... brine, mustard, horseradish, and pine tar.  

Finish: short, bitter, sour, & nasty... vanilla extract, minced garlic, charcoal-peat, lots of rye, twine, burnt plastic, gum eraser, plenty more iodine, and dirty bike chain grease.  

Conclusions: what sherry?! The finish is surprisingly short for a smoky scotch, but that's fine because it tastes like a tire factory. The three casks didn't add anything but somewhat tamed the medicine cabinet that is Laphroaig. Actually, I would say Laphroaig's profile is not so much "band aids" as it is "blackened kitchen sponge" or maybe "wharf water wrung out of a sweaty pirate shirt." However, the Triple Wood's mouth-feel isn't that bad, there's redeeming peat to be found, and I suppose this is the best I've tried by Laphroaig. It's also probably my last. 76/100  

Comparisons:
Laphroaig 10 - 71/100
Laphroaig Quarter Cask - 67/100  

A final thought: in addition to being my 90th review, this also makes 10 reviews in a row of only Islays and peated single malts. So perhaps the boiled butcher's apron of Laphroaig is a good place to change course. So. Coming soon: Macallan! Balvenie! Benrinnes! Others!  

Peace, love, whisky, and thank you for your patience, Laphroaig-lovers.



I can't say I agree with this. OP does disclose personal tastes and in reviewing OP is taking a more detailed approach than just 'peat, no thanks. Ok, maybe 10 Islay in a row is overkill, but it's good to get a different view, and for those peat denialists, probably good to see which ones may be worth trying to expand their horizons. 

Now, of course, I can still see your point (if you dislike avante-garde jazz don't review a bunch of Ornette Coleman LPs), but if OP finds a peated whisky he likes, that'd be good, and then other non-peatheads can learn of some drams they may enjoy. What's the downside, that the average score of Laphroaig in the archive will be lower?

Naturally, Laphroaig is not a great place to look for mild & welcoming peat, though I drink it lustily



I have to agree (with /u/mentel42).

Dissenting opinions are crucial to trying to finding people with similar tastes to you. I'm not a huge fan of sherried scotch, so when trying to decide if a reviewer's tastes match mine is to see if their reviews of Glendronach or Glenfarclas are lower than average. 



Laphroaig Triple Wood

48%, aged in ex-bourbon, then something else, then finished in Oloroso.

Nose:  Peat, smoke, marmite, salt, seaweed, grapes, red wine.  

Palate:  Peat, earth, mussels, sweet wine, brown sugar, vanilla with cream, corn syrup.

Finish: Brown sugar, vanilla, earth, brine, meat, bacon, salt, tobacco, mushrooms, white sugar. grape flavoured chewing gum.

A noble ABV, but the strong sherry sweetness feels at odds with the rest of the experience to me.  I don?t dislike this by any means, but it makes me wish I had a Quarter Cask on hand?  without the sweet sherry elements.

84/100




Distilled/Owned by: Laphroaig / Beam Suntory

Region: Islay

48% ABV

Mashbill: 100% malted barley

Aged For: NAS

Cask Type: Ex-bourbon casks, quarter casks, sherry butts

Chill Filtered: No

Color Added: ?

Color: Deep gold

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn.

Nose: Smoke, wood, caramel, blueberry, dates, walnut, brown sugar, mint.

Mouthfeel: Dry and thick

Palate/Taste: Very medicinal, iodine, heavy peat, pepper, ginger, barley, and sherry flavors

Finish: Long and warm with smoke, peat, oak, autumn leaves, and leather.

Thoughts: Less ?meat? notes than the regular expression and more fruit. I enjoyed this a bit more.

Score: 80/100



Laphroaig Triple Wood - 48%, $57 

Nose: Heavy brine, smoky peat, salt, light sweetness, oak. 

Taste: Ashy, brined seaweed, sweetness is strong, oak spice, slight malt. Medium mouthfeel. 

Finish: The peat holds for a bit with the salt too, it's all gone pretty fast. Short length. 

Notes: Slightly different than some of Laphroaig's standard line up. It's quite a bit sweeter and the oak is arguably more prominent, but that's about it. I do commend Laphroaig on not chill filtering or coloring this expression too. 

82/100



Non-Chill Filtered

ABV: 48%

Age: NAS

Price: $65

Distiller: D. Johnston & Co. (Laphroaig)

Eye: 
Light caramel

Nose:
Caramel, butterscotch and a punchy peat walk hand-in-hand out of the glass while honey, baklava and a tarry molasses like sweetness pal around with a nutty character deep in the aroma. Overripe orchard fruit and a slight pop of citrus move about adding to the dimensions of this whisky.

Taste:
Peat, caramel and dark fruit move about strangely on the palate. They're a little out of synch which gives notes of dark fruit, nuts, wood, sherry sweetness and a candied smoked meat opportunities to come and go at intervals that continually jostle the dominant flavors. Seaweed, iodine and citrus peel provide a savory backdrop.

Balance, Body & Feel:
A decent balance of flavors and aromas with a full body, smooth texture and a bit of heat on it's way down.

Finish:
Peat, ash, caramel, honey, an ambiguous rich sweetness, wood and a hint of flaky pastry all ride out on a nice long finish.

Score:
89/100

Overall:
I like the Laphroaig Triple Wood, but I don't love it. Those wonderful medicinal Novocain notes I've come to associate with the name seem to have been covered up with some sweeter dessert notes. I don't mind that with the 2013 Cairdeas because of the balance of port and peat work together to create an entirely new experience. Here it feels like something is missing. Like it's just 2 degrees off, but that 2 degrees isn't enough to get me riled up because at the end of the day it does come together as an overall flavorful dram that passes the all important porch test. Which is a rigorous process of pouring some neat, sitting on my porch and enjoying a warm SoCal afternoon.



After Tex's rant and /u/t8ke's review, I went back to have a look at my notes.  Said notes indicate I never posted this.  Wtf was I thinking?

My thanks to /u/xpentakx for the sample.

Initial Impressions: peat

Nose: Peat, coal tar, malt barley, a pinch of salt brine, green apples or grapes

Taste: bright young peated whisky, though not all that brash to kick you in the face. Brown sugar malt, smarties (American candy), just a bit of coal smoke. Barely present is the hospital iodine, but it started to show up in later sips

Finish: sour to start, with some pepper burn then comes peat smoke which lingers and turns sweeter in the aftertaste. 

Really enjoyable, if somewhat muted compared to most Laphroaig - it's missing that harsh kick in the teeth, but to be honest, I'm OK with that.

Score: 94/100

Would I buy it again? Yes, I see this as a good alternate to the Laphroaig 18



it's missing that harsh kick in the teeth

That's what I love about Laphroaig, and why I found TripleWood lacking. It was too smoove and boring. 



Laphroaig Triple Wood, 48%

And in a bid to get my first tartan, I'll post this review I had already written my notes for. This is a bar review of a dram I had the other day, so these notes aren't perhaps as complete as they might be. However, I feel my general conclusions are what I'd reach even with a full bottle. So, let's see what this triple casked Laphroaig - standard, quarter and sherry - is all about. Is it Laphroaig's answer to Uigeadail?

Color: whisky

Nose: peat, mild iodine, sherry, vanilla

My initial reaction was of mild disappointment, as the nose wasn't as strong as most Laphroaigs - in a bad way. The nose is also largely dominated by sherry and peat, and is missing that Laphroaig yumminess that I associate with the 10 and QC. However, I was still quite hopeful at this point, having had some sherry-finished Islays (looking at you, Uigeadail) that were amazing.

Taste: smoke, caramel, iodine, spice, dried fruit, tannins

The taste was really rather good after the lackluster nose. The 48% ABV pulls it up a bit, giving it a full body and allowing the peat and sherry to come through. Still not as delicious as the 10 or QC, though. Instead of adding to the flavour, the sherry rather detracts from the wonderful balance those two expressions have.

Finish: long, iodine, peat, raisins, bitter tannins

And this is where it all falls apart. The finish is long and bitter, and really doesn't make you want more. I can only think that the dry sherry finish has imparted a bit too much bitterness that comes out mainly in the finish.

Conclusion: Not an Uigeadail beater. Throughout the dram, I was a bit unimpressed. Afterwards, I went home to try the Laphroaig 10 to see if I'd just forgotten what Laphroaig was about and if this was worth a higher score. The first sip of the 10 blew me away with its contrast to this - where the Triple Wood was flat and boring, the 10 was vibrant, alive and delicious.

Score: 81/100

It's a decent whisky that gets beaten by its cheaper and tastier siblings. Worth a try? Sure. Worth a bottle? Unfortunately, no.



How empty and possibly old was the bottle?  For me, the Triple Wood was far better than the 10, much like the QC but with a lot more caramel.

For some reason Laphroaigs seem to change due to oxidization more than other whiskys. In any case you've inspired me to do a head to head tonight between the QC and Triple Wood.  I just wish I had some 10 on hand to include.



It was at a bar, so I did not pay any particular attention to the level.

However, in my experience with a heavily oxidized 10, Laphroaigs mellow out as they age. I like the 10 more in its current state than I did when it was fresh.



I absolutely agree.  My first taste of Laphroaig was 10 fresh from a bottle, and I was very put off by it due to the really potent iodine flavor.  On the suggestion of some here, I let it mellow out for a month and it was MUCH better.  The QC had a similar effect, but it wasn't as severe as the 10.  The 10 got a lot weaker overall with age, but I have learned since then and my QC got rebottled in something smaller.

However the Triple Wood was fresh and I really enjoyed it.  The iodine was still very noticeable but not overpowering like a fresh 10.  I have only had it for a month so I have yet to tell how it ages.



I'm not a huge sherry fan, though. I like Uigeadail because the sherry's not front and centre, but I felt that the Triple Wood had a much bigger sherry influence. Also, I don't like bitterness, and I got quite a lot of that on the finish. 

Again, it's subjective. My 81 might be your 90.



If you're not against the sacrilege of mixing single malts -- mix half and half of the 10yo and triple wood. (or try 2/3 1/3 mixes).

I quite enjoy it this way -- it mellows that sherry influence down to be a bit more subtle.



I?ve never actually reviewed any OB Laphroaigs willingly, but Swinse sent me QC as a mystery dram and ruined everything. Bastard. I was going to do a super awesome Laphroaig special for my 200th review with 4 different Cairdeas, 10yo at 40% and 43% ABV, 3 batches of 10CS, 15 (my favourite), 18, and 25CS, but then I realised it's too much work and too many open bottles. Too bad.

199th will be a Brora and 200th will be Glenfarclas 105 20yo.

A big thank you to bigmoneysalsa for the bottle and sample of the Cairdeas Port Wood. I love you.

Laphroaig Triple Wood, 48% ABV

Bourbon + Quarter Casks + Oloroso = Triple Wood.

Nose: Creme brulee. Soft medicinal peat smoke. New plastic and rubber. Dried mango and longan. Lingzhi. Toffee apple. Faint vanilla. Jasmine & Oolong tea. Honey roasted nuts. Smouldering charcoal. Salty green olives and seaweed cut through the otherwise very sweet nose.

Taste: Medium bodied with a silky mouthfeel. Salted toffee and vanilla custard. Tangy tangerine. Glace ginger. Very subtle sherry-like dried fruits and spices. Melon and orange rind. Some musty, yet peppery oak. Woody and smoky, rather than a TCP peat explosion.

Finish: Light earthy peat with a floral edge. Burnt nuts. Sarsaparilla. Medium length, sweet and smoky.

More refined and delicate compared to QC but I enjoy them equally. Same score.

88/100




I liked the Triplewood as well. Maybe a little more so than the QC, but the price increase isn't really worth it. 

Portwood is all hype. 



Portwood is all hype.

True, but it's still very good, just not #TOTESAMAZEBALLSTHISISAWESOME



QA is no big deal. I asked about it when I was at Laphroaig and they didn't want to bring it up, apparently it was a bit of an embarrassment for them.

It's kind of the Blasda of Laphroaig.



It's kind of the Blasda of Laphroaig.

http://i.imgur.com/wGk0G.gif



Mine's smoke and ash all the way down, with hints of meatiness and spice.

I got those notes too! With bonus fruit.



Wait until /u/texacer hears about this...

He LOVED him some Cairdeas



Preferably something I don't have. I currently own bottles from the following distilleries:

UPDATE - I have ordered the following:

THANKS FOR PLAYING!



Glencadam! The 15 was damn tasty.

And I was joking about PE. 14 isn't even out yet.



I thought you meant a 14yo PE. Silly me.

I'm ashamed to say I've never tried a Glencadam. It's always been on my radar but I never got around to it. Shortlisted.



Auchroisk?

I've got a bottle of the Flora and Forna 10yo here and it's great. Could review it for you tonight if you wanna wait.



I could recommend something more expensive if you like ;) but it really is a cracker. 

Soft, fruity and with a big clove spice.



Cheap is good! I'm going to order it, can't be bothered waiting for your review.

Current Cart Status: 



I almost ordered a Miltonduff when I was ordering more Amruts. Maybe it was a Macduff. Can't remember.

Banff is sorta hard to find and expensive. I've been looking, with not much luck.



Pretty sure you missed Ardbeg. =)

Tamnavulin? Teaninich? Balmenach? Fettercairn? Deanston?

Granted, all of those have terrible reputations, but oh well.



Good catch, added.

I won a sample of this unreleased SMWS Balmenach when I guessed a couple of whiskies at a tasting. It's kinda crappy.

The two T's are a bit ehhh. Almost ordered a Fettercairn once. Tried a few Deanstons and I'm not in a hurry to order any.



I'm just listing distilleries, to be fair. I've had a Deanston and Teaninich, not the rest.

Loch Lomond. Braeval (tried one, not good). Tullibardine (legit quite good). Tomintoul (not great).



I've tried Inchmurrin (Loch Lomond) and it's pretty nice. Also tried a couple Braevel (Braes of Glenlivet). Tomintoul 14 and Peaty Tang are good.

I don't think I've had a Tullibardine. Which one to get?



I had their entry level Sovereign and liked it - simple, clean, malty. 

Ordered a sample of the Rum Finish recently. 



Haven't tried the Triple Wood before, but have had the PX cask travel retail bottling which I believe is similar. 

Nose: peat, sherry, sweet ash, smoke, cherries

Palate: more ash, peat, cherry, sherry, smoke sweetness

Finish: long, ashy, peaty. 

Score: 86

very nice. Well balanced, but I did prefer the bunna. 

Laphroaig Triple Wood

So I'm at Feather's. It's a week I'm taking off. Relaxing. Mostly just chilling out, enjoying myself, writing, having a dram a day. It's the midst of Fan Expo. On a Saturday. Which was nuts. I need to pick a third, last, not TOO expensive dram.

And I've been hankering quite a bit of for some unique finishes.

Well, what's better than just one finish? Why Three Finishes! That's where Laphroaig Triple Wood comes in. Also I wanted to save some money during this very consumer-centric nerd-a-thon.

But think about it: Three Finishes! Without saying what they are, or using any of your brain to remember, seriously! Three finishes! Sure, I didn't like Dalmore King Al the Third, but that's Dalmore, so are we surprised? And this isn't 16 finishes like that one (Editor note: that's sarcasm), it's just three!

Only after did I find out the three: First ex-Bourbon, selected from multiple vintages that are well suited (their words, not mine), second is Quarter Cask, and then finally a Sherry European Oak cask (Oloroso Sherry Cask). 

So... that's interesting. I typically like a Double Wood, and I like the Quarter Cask, so what could go wrong?

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 48%

Colour: Brass

Nose: Peat, red apples, lime, campfire, strawberry, caramel

So it starts out very similar to the 10 year. Given a blind tasting, I won't lie: I wouldn't have any idea this isn't the 10 year, barring some fruit notes. And faint fruit notes at that.

Like that one Aunt. You know, she's nice, she's great, knits for needy kids, but also knows the names of every single Boss fight in the first 6 Final Fantasy games, and probably is better at original Starcraft then you? Yet you don't notice until later in life, and she's cool, yet still says "That's nice" when you talk about what's wrong with the Jays starting pitcher.

Taste: Cherry, peat, tobacco, cocoa, anise, plum, sea salt, cinnamon

The sherry influence is here now. It's nice, though not really adding too much. Like my commentary between my notes.

I'm a big boy, I know.

Finish: Peat, currant, sparkling strawberry wine, cedar smoke, caramel

And now the sherry is taking over everything. It's shown up, has put down roots, and has run anything else in this whisky to a reservation, just to show up for some Casino commercials.

There's also a young element at the end that turns me off a little.

Conclusion: So I enjoy this experiment, and think it's a tiny bit better than the 10 year. That said, should I pay a premium for something that is +8% Abv. and has lots of promises? No. It's unbalanced towards the sherry cask, I can't really tell the effect, if any, the Quarter Cask did, and at the end of the day, it's just okay.

This probably should have stayed a travel exclusive, as I assume it had more balance when it was less produced.

77/100




5th on Islay? That's a pile of crap.

Laphroaig > Kilchoman = Caol Ila > Ardbeg > Lagavulin >> Bunnahabhain >>>> Bruichladdich >? Bowmore



I put up the following in response to /u/Dworgi:

Ardbeg > Lagavulin = Kilchoman > Caol Ila > Laphroaig > Bruichladdich > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

That said, I've since gone back, and after these reviews, averaged out my scores for each.

Order is:



Now, take some of those with a grain of salt. Port Ellen, Lagavulin, and Kilchoman have only had 2 reviews each. 

Though the Kilchoman should be getting a boost soon..



See, I tend to go:

Ardbeg > Lagavulin = Kilchoman > Caol Ila > Laphroaig > Bruichladdich > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

EDIT: Turns out, based on my reviews, it goes:

Port Ellen > Lagavulin > Ardbeg > Bruichladdich > Laphroaig > Kilchoman > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

Granted, that could change after I do my Kilchoman quad review.



My disagreement stems from a few factors:

Ardbeg is so unreliable. Alligator was amazing, Ardbog/Auriverdes/Galileo were meh. Uigeadail is great, Corryvreckan is meh. Ardbeg 10 is passable. And then there's Blah-sda. And no IBs unless you have an extra grand to spend.

Lagavulin 16 isn't my thing, Distiller's Edition is downright offensively bland. Lagavulin 12 is great some years, but rubbish other years. There is nothing else unless you have $5,000 to spare. 

Laphroaig is almost rock solid quality. Every Cairdeas I've tried has been at the very least good. Triple Wood is disappointing, QC isn't my thing, QA is a bit bland. But PX, 10, 15,
