Swinse #2

Okay... this one is peated. Probably should've saved it for the end. Poured it already; too late!

Nose: Floral ashy peat smoke. Tarry asphalt. Ashy barrel char and incense. Dried berries and grapes. Leathery, grassy and mossy. Cucumber and aloe. Smoked fish. Faint camphor and menthol.

Taste: Medium bodied. Phenolic peat and campfire smoke. Cigar ash and tobacco. Melon rind. Sweet floral honey and barley. Grilled fennel. Coffee grounds. Vanilla, allspice and black pepper. 

Finish: Black liquorice. Medicinal and peaty. Ashy and dry. Medium-long and a bit rubbery.

I like this a lot. Nice bold flavours. 

Predictions:

ABV: 45-50%

Cask: Bourbon. Maybe a sherry finish.

Region: Islay. If I had to pick... probably a Bowmore or Laphroaig of some sort.

88/100




I (sort of) guessed yours... I'm quite happy with the results so far. 

I was looking at my notes for yours and drinking it and I thought, "this tastes Canadian." And then I thought, "...but why would trumpet have a Canadian whisky?"






I'm chill dude.  if you really want a friendly competition, create something for the community and compete with this:  http://stattit.com/r/scotch/

you aint even in the top ten brah!  do you even whisky?



not really the appropriate place to discuss.

tl;rd he claimed to have family issues and left a number of redditor swaps in the lurch.  his actions have been less than trusthworthy and now he's active again on /r/judaism and a couple other places.  



Astar is better... and cheaper. 

Ealanta is weaker, creamier and nuttier. Astar is fruitier and bolder.



Sample from /u/myanonymouslife. 48% ABV.  Aging has been "speeded up" by aging in quarter casks.

Nose: Peat, smoke, BBQ, bacon

Palate: Thick and oily.  Rich.  Starts off with a bit of sweetness followed by a smack of peat smoke and then eases into more complexity.  Cocoa, toffee, a bit of coffee.

Finish: Smokey and oak.  Long, very long.  Everything fades except for the smoke.

Score: 89/100

This is delightful.  I wasn't sure about the hype around this, but now I know its legit.  I'll be picking up a bottle ASAP.



Laphroaig Quarter Cask 

(48%, matured in American oak ex-bourbon barrels for several years + finished in quarter casks for several months, ~$75 CDN)

?

Thanks to u/DistillAsian for the sample (twice!). First time around, was just looking for a dram to enjoy after a long day? finished it before I remembered to get my thoughts down, so ended up swapping for it again.

?

Nose: Ash, band aids, cocoa, lavender, musty notes - damp wood and old leather

Taste: Oak, vanilla, tobacco, salt, smoke, toffee, chinese rock sugar

Finish: Medium, drying, ash, oak, band aids and a hint of bitterness

?

Thick and oily, this provides a powerful phenolic experience. Largely one-dimensional until you get beyond the band aids and oak, this is a simple dram but classic Laphroaig goodness. I came into this one backwards (reflected in my scoring) but impressively it still holds up decently. For those that love this one, look to independent bottlings if you have the opportunity. You have a great journey ahead!  

Makes for a solid "daily", a decent core expression and one of the few good values left. I can see why people like this as a staple in the cabinet. Also a good one to introduce someone to strong peated whisky... but those looking to ease into it should start with something else first.

?

82/100



Glad you enjoyed this and can appreciate a "normal" dram haha

I have to point out that I am always impressed by the quality of your pictures haha

Also, great notes and many more than I have ever noted!



Thanks. It's amazing what quality equipment can do to compensate for subpar amateur photography :P

Actually to be honest, I started fiddling with razor sharp prime lenses and fully manual settings... still trying to get comfortable. Still shoot too many pics where they look good until viewing them on the computer.



Haha I don't think this is subpar at all (or your others for that matter)

Agreed though in terms of photos always looking better on a tiny screen haha



Landed in Vancouver today and been running around before I head to my conference in whistler - saw your review - truly amazing stuff it sounds like!

I've never seen this long a review from you haha

And as always amazing photo 



Laphroaig Quarter Cask 96 proof

Why is it called Quarter Cask? Because it goes through the last 9 months of its maturation in a smaller cask. Smaller casks were used in the 1800s because they were easy to tote around stagecoaches , if you've ever seen a full sized cask you know they are big mothers. Being a smaller barrel the Laphroaig matures faster because it has much more contact with the wood. 

98/100



Laphroaig Quarter Cask

Islay, 48%

color: gold

nose: medicinal, peat smoke, banana, citrus, white pepper

taste: medicinal, sweet, peat, vanilla yoghurt, oak, smoke, linoleum, soybeans, malt, sea notes, hint of banana

finish: warms the esophagus, long

Pretty complex, hard to determine particular notes. Not as heavy and smoky as the 10 year old, probably due to the oak of the quarter casks.

90/100



Today I had a shitty day. I overslept my alarm, the bus to work took forever, traffic all the way. Work just felt long, then we had a terrorist attack outside (80m away) and the road with my bus stop home was blocked, and obviously when it was unblocked traffic was nuts again. 

So when I got home and saw a pack of whisky samples I'd ordered waiting for me it brightened up my day a lot, especially considering most of the samples are whiskies I'd had before, before I started taking notes, so in short old friends. This is one of my favourites and I've been through 2 bottles in the past. 

Matured about 5 years and a few months in Bourbon and Quarter Casks, 48%ABV, Caramalised and Chill Filterified

Nose: The seaside. Salty rocks, Rotting wood, Seaweed, Brine. Anise. Overripe banana. Smoked fish. Something warm and smelly, like well worn socks. Leather. Boiled sweets. Mulch. Some rich woody notes and mineral peat unfold with some time in the glass. 

Palate: Ashy peat. Old barbeque scrapings. Charred wood. Some strong herbal notes, anise, fennel, cloves. Bit of bourbonesque woody vanilla.

Finish: Long. Waves of smoke with a persistant dry wood note. 

Rating: 9/10

This is just as good as I remember. Has a bit more oomph to it than the 10 (I for one prefer my peaty whiskies aggressive), and some more wood to it, with some surprising complexity. Put a smile on my face after a nasty day. 



Old Pulteney was the most northerly distillery on the Scottish mainlaind until Wolfburn was opened in 2012. It?s owned by Inver House, the same people behind Balblair, An Cnoc, and a couple other distilleries. Malt Madness has more info.

Nose - Fairly restrained. Caramel, candied lemon, sea spray, black pepper, vanilla, firewood. Nice depth and complexity, but not powerful.

Palate - Thick and oily. Candied lemon, caramel, and vanilla, with a lot of black pepper, raw ginger, and sea saltiness coming in as it develops. Maybe a hint of smoke, too. Very nicely balanced and complex.

Finish - The candied lemon and caramel notes continue, augmented by a ginger/peppery bite. The lemon note becomes increasingly dry and acidic as it lingers.

Quite enjoyable. Straightforward and ?clean?, but I mean that in a good way - i.e., nothing has been muddled or lost with this one, I feel like I get everything I should out of it. There?s a lot going on here, with nice depth to the flavors. That said, while it?s very nicely executed, I can?t find something here that would put it in the A range for me.

89/100



I've had this one for a while, but never got around to reviewing it. Definitely a favourite. 

love this one. it's bold and strong, and makes no apologies. I very much look forward to a few other Laphroaig expressions once this bottle is nearly empty. 

Rating: 92/100



Hi everyone,

How have I managed to skip this one?

So this is a very famous bottle that was a great deal at ?26 from Asda. Sadly it?s not discounted much these days. 

It?s a Laphroaig at a higher strength, finished in smaller quarter casks. A quarter cask is a quarter of a 500L Butt, so 125L. These smaller casks have a greater surface area to whisky ratio and therefore should mature the whisky a bit faster too.

My first taste of this was in France, at a bar, along with Bunna 12. This just about got ahead of the Bunna, which I gave 75. 

?

Laphroaig Quarter Cask 48%

Colour: E150a

Body: Full

Nose: Sweet, smoky malt, some nut, chocolate, burnt sugar, burning twigs, wet grass, some hay, treacle toffee, savoury note- Smoked ham, mineral note- Flint, charcoal, coal. 

Water: Honey and vanilla emerge, lots of cream, chocolatey malt, more fruit- Baked apple, burnt pastry (strudel), twiggy peat fires burning in the background. Herbal/perfume note lurking in there- Mint and flower pollen?

Taste: Mouth coating. Salty smoke, then savoury with smoked ham, then sweet, then back to smoky with earthy peat. Very clear evolution of flavours, great form.

Water: More soft, creamy arrival, mineral note- Flint, charcoal, coal. Then burning hay, wet grass, rich earthy peat and coal fires. Savoury salty note- Kippers and bacon. Strong malty note still here too.

Finish: Medium length. Sweet notes mingle nicely with earthy peat.

Very well put together, balanced flavours with excellent direction and pace. A real step up from the 10yo. 

76/100

?

Thanks for reading!

Scotch Review #435

Whisky Network Review #495



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.com/laphroaig1/4cask

Network Average: 74.3

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 22

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent

?

Full Disclosure Disclaimer: I currently work as a Brand Ambassador for Penderyn Distillery. The views expressed here are purely my own and do not reflect the views of Penderyn Distillery or The Welsh Whisky Company. I try to maintain as much objectivity as I can but feel free to take my reviews with as big a pinch of salt as you like. Furthermore, my rating scale is NOT based on a Parker type wine scoring scale or a school/college/university % or A-F grade score. You can find more on my scoring here. I apologise for any seemly low or 'bad' scores given with my system and am sorry I can't say only nice things. Please keep in mind that I am ethically compromised and am unable to produce 100% unbiased reviews.

Why is this here?



76/100

What do you think they could've done better for a higher score?



Interesting. 

My palate still hasn't adjusted well enough to higher ABVs for me to try cs whiskeys yet.

I can drink up to 46-48% neat, but 55% and above just burns my throat. Is it something that gets easier over time?



Thanks. Direction would be that it's not all all over the place with different flavours, there's a clear evolution from the salty smoked ham to sweetness and then smoke.

Pace would be that the flavours are nicely paced out, it's not developing too quickly or slowly.



Sorry for the stock image, I swear I took a picture of this one, yet it never uploaded.

You know how there's always that one whisky that you have and have never, ever reviewed? You'll order it, you'll enjoy it, heck, maybe it's even yet another reason why you enjoy a certain region and yet you've never just reviewed it?

Well I'd like to thank glinsvad for sending me that this dram as part of a recent swap. Laphroaig Quarter Cask was first introduced to me 2 years ago when I flew into England. It was my first Scotch on English soil, and it was very good. Blew my understanding of what Peat should be right out of the salt water. And finally, after ordering it multiple times in bars on holiday, I'm going to review it.

Abv: 48%

Price: Received a swap, however the price for a 750ml near me is $69.95 (CAD)

Region: Islay

Colour: Goldenrod

Nose: Leather, smoke, pop rocks in the nose, cedar, spices, Sauvignon Blanc, smoked meat

To explain what I mean by "pop rocks in the nose", you know that feeling when you breath in smoke or spices and it sets off different smells throughout? That's the feeling you get from Laphroaig Quarter Cask. It eventually mellows into a smoked meat mix. And the Sauvignon adds a nice dry, fruit mix that balances it out.

Taste: Spicy, smoke, burn, leather, vanilla, salt water, curry powder, charcoal, chocolate milk

And the spices keep on coming. Here's a fun fact: When I cook, I overspice everything. Why? Well that's just the way I prefer food. And this dram matches up nicely to that. Is it properly balanced or smooth? Not at all. And while that's a detriment, it's a nice dram to have when you want a pick me up.

Finish: Bacon, BBQ sauce, Stilton, habanero, coffee beans, cigars

Medium length on this, which is nice. Wish it was longer almost. This is quite nice way to finish off, though I almost wish it would smooth out just a little bit. It's a fighter until the end, and that comes with pros and cons. On the other hand... mmmm... bacon.

Conclusion: Laphroaig QC is a great way to show someone what Islay is all about. It's peaty, smokey, and strong. It's not perfect, as the finish could be longer, or the taste could be more balanced, however if you're looking for a great dram with dinner or relaxing at night, you can go a lot worse than this Scotch.

85/100



I agree with your overall impression as well. Excellent value for money on the peat/smoke but too unbalanced and fierce to satisfy my disposition. I think I may have expected too much of this compared to the top tier cask strength Islays.

Anyway, remember to save that Caol Ila 12 sample I sent you - looks like it's going to be the next community review based on the current nominees.



Thanks again for sending these to me.

I would have loved to have saved the Caol Ila 12 sample, however... I already reviewed it and have it written up. I'm planning on posting it tomorrow.



I've never had the Laphroaig 12. A quick google search shows that there's a few, and all are independent bottlings. I'll have to keep an eye out for it.

If you meant the Laphroaig 10, I can't honestly remember. I am sure I've had it before, however I'll have to have it again to give a proper reaction. I seem to remember that it wasn't as strong as the QC, and that I prefer the QC over the 10.



This has been the only single malt that my wife has enjoyed out of the ones I've had her sample (Mac12, Glenmorangie10, Glenfiddich18), I think she must be a Peat / Savory fan like me. It was awesome actually hear her tell me she liked one of my Whiskies, however now I am in fear of her dipping into them! 

Maybe her palate is slowly evolving as she tries little sips of mine here and there. - I've yet to review my QC but I really enjoy it, nice and boggy yet sweet and smokey. Definitely a fan of this one. Nice review TOModera!



I haven't had the budget to pickup any Caol Ila 12 but I foresee getting a bottle soon if votes continue the way the are for the new Community Review. 

This is the only Laphroaig I've purchased so far. I do have Lagavulin 12 - 2011 that I'll introduce her to next, I'm sure she'll like that one even more than the Laphroaig QC like me lol - I had to generously water the QC for her due to the higher 48% ABV in the QC. 

Definitely looking forward to trying the Caol Ila, thanks for the recommendation Tom. I'll post my results of introducing her to other Islays lol
