Ledaig 10 (46.3% ABV) from someone

I missed the community review...but here it goes anyway.

Nose: ash and petroleum (in a nice way), meaty and rich, honey, something floral (lavendar?)

Palate: ash...lots initially, then sweet smoke with a bit of lemon and honey

Finish: smoke (sweeter here than palate), then a bit of grain fading to dry ashes

This became less complex as it progressed from nose to palate. I liked it a lot, though, as the peat is drier and ashier than Laphroaig. This is good stuff, and you can see from the base why it would take so nicely to finishing. For the price it goes around me I prefer Laphroaig 10 CS though if I want something bourbon matured and peaty, as it's burlier and more complex.

Score: 6/10

Rating Breakdown

1 | Disgusting | Drain pour

2 | Poor | Struggled to finish

3 | Bad | Quite Flawed

4 | Sub-par | Not bad, but many things I'd rather have

5 | Good | Good, solid, ordinary...pick your phrase

6 | Very Good | Better than average

7 | Great | Well above average

8 | Excellent | Exceptional

9 | Incredible | Extraordinary

10 | Insurpassable | No better exists



Starting a bit of a segment on reasonably priced bottlings (under $50 US).  I haven't reviewed a peated one in a while so I figured this was a perfect start.

Nose:  Peaty but a bit more quiet than a full blown Islay.  When fully open it resembles a Talisker a bit.  A bit of smoky cured ham with lemon, salt air, grapefruit, cereals, vanilla, and the occasional malt vinegar note.  I noted a tiny touch of sulfur buried in the background but it's not heavy enough to significantly impact the whisky.  When it's not quite open or the nose is bottled up the malt vinegar mixes with some sour citrus and a touch of cheap vodka which I found a bit 'off'.  Fully open this is much better.

Taste:  This bottle has just completely perplexed me because it seems to be changing all the time.  On average it's moderately peaty with malt, brine and cereal notes.  A bit of lemonade and lemon rind oddly enough.

Finish:  Fairly dry.  A touch of black pepper with a bit of peaty citrus.  A little short though, especially before it opens.

Final Notes:  This dram has changed nearly every day I've drank it.  On the best days it resembles a Talisker.  On its worst the nose seems tainted by some odd bitter notes and the dram occasionally shows a slight bit of sulfury character.  You can see I've spent a lot of time with the bottle figuring this out!  Although it sometimes seems quite 'fresh', give it lots of time and I think this one will open up to a decent dram.

Final Score:  85/100

Edited for a bit of clarity.

Edit 2:  For those unfamiliar with Ledaig it is a peated expression from Tobermory on the Isle of Mull



Ledaig 10 Year, 46% ABV, Island

Color - pale straw

Nose -   light peat, iodine, sweet cinnamon shortbread, floral vanilla & honey, butter salt

Taste - peat, smoke, spice, charred oak, green apple and slight vanilla

Finish - fresh air, charred oak, slight maritime, peat, salt & pepper

Overall:  

The nose is pretty strange? starting with peat and spicy sweetness, a bit of earth, and ending with butter salt; didn't see that one coming.  The first sip brings an oily rush over the tongue spreading peat and smoke throughout, there's some quick spices and a mellow charred oak cascading into vanilla.  This is certainly not the most complex tasting dram, but I really like it, it's quite tasty.  The finish was kind of short, and the warmth didn't linger for too long, but I found the aftertaste to be quite enjoyable.

87/100



Review #70 Ledaig 10 Year old

$48, Unchill-filtered, 46.3% ABV

Appearance: Beautiful no e150 coloring pale piss.  Coats glass nicely 

Nose: Not the most complex, but engaging and gets the notes right. Fresh. Light smoke, peat comes after, Tobermory minerals notes, sea spray , citris pineapple like notes in the background.

Taste: Peat, campfire, herbal tea, a savory note (butter?), touch of vanilla.  Ledaig is interesting to me that the intensity of these favors seems to change with different sittings.  Most notably the peat and smoke.  It definitely keeps you on your toes and engaged.

Finish: Long and lingering, oily.  Dry, peat, smoke, white pepper, mineral notes, light oceanic notes, and a ginger beer note shows up sometimes.

90/100

This trumps Talisker 10 for me as my favorite peated Islander.  I purchase this when I want to change up from Laphroaig 10 every once in a while (Froggy is actually cheaper by a few dollars surprisingly in my area).  Ledaig has a great presentation and is not boring IMHO.  Bottle/packaging is great to, probably my favorite cork with Ilse of Mull printed on top. This will keep you engaged throughout the bottle.  Warning, this is not a beginner peated dram.  You tackle this after you have made the rounds with the classic peaters and you then can appreciate what Tobermory has done here.  

Cheers!



Whisky Network Review #113

I?ve reviewed a few Box whiskies now, and have been impressed with all the offerings from this small Swedish producer (to the point of picking up my own bottles, where possible). The latest one up for review is their PX expression, which has been finished in Pedro Ximenez sherry casks. Thanks to /u/Devoz for the sample.

Box PX was launched in December 2016, exclusively for the international market. As usual, Box provides an incredible amount of detail on their website about the whisky that went into the bottle (I recommend you check it out for more info). Here is the short version: unpeated whisky aged in first-fill bourbon casks followed by finishing in first-fill PX for for a total 5.34 years. 1507 bottles of 500 mL were produced, bottled at 56.7% ABV. It retails for ~85? (I?ve seen it for ~$145 CAD in Canada). Box PX is neither chill-filtered, nor containing colouring.

Nose:  Apple juice, red berries, figs, sour cherry, and assorted dried fruits. A bit of orange peel. Vanilla. Touch of chocolate. Ginger. Faint hint of old sweatsock funk ? which is something I usually associated with lightly peated whisky.

Palate: Creamy caramel, maple syrup and brown sugar ? very sweet, but complex. Green banana adds to the fruit notes (mainly apple and raisin/figs ? not getting the red berries any more). Definitely more chocolate now. A bit nutty. Fair amount of cinnamon and nutmeg, plus pepper. Has a buttery texture, which is nice ? but is a bit hot for the ABV (something I haven?t found on other BOX expressions).

Finish: Medium long. Lingering sweetness, balanced with the more oaky elements (i.e., seems a bit woody now). A touch of that sourness I found on the nose returns at the end.

Water dulls the nose, and increases the sweetness in the mouth. It does help a bit with the burn though, and doesn?t affect that buttery texture. So you might want to try a few drops, but go easy.

A very decent expression, it is a nice addition of PX sherry to the base Box character. I personally prefer the 2nd Step Collection 02, but this is very nice as well. There is some similarity to the Sm?gen Sherry Project 1:4 that I recently reviewed (although without the peat here). Both are very sweet, with some interesting underlying "funky" notes. Another recommended Box offering!

Score: 87

Personal lifetime scoring stats:  Mean score:  85.1, Standard Deviation: 5.2, Min score: 58, Max score: 96, Number scored: 236

WhiskyAnalysis Meta-Critic Database for:

Box PX: 8.92 ? 0.16 on 5 reviews ($$$$$)



Island, 46.3%. NCF and I believe NCA. Rested about 10 minutes in a glencairn. Ledaig is the peated malt from Tobermory. This is the entry-level OB. First Ledaig I tried was an IB, and it was one of the weirdest drams I?ve ever tried. Let?s see how this stacks up. 

Sample provided by u/aglarattercop.

Bonus wife note: ?Ew...peat?                                                                                                                                                                                   

Bonus wife note: ?Actually, not bad. Tastes like chocolate and dried longans.?

Conclusion: I like this. Wasn?t crazy about the nose, but the palate turned it around. Not a campfire type of peat with a lot of ash. Pleasant sherry flavors along with the peat, and the salinity helps balance the sweetness. I think I like this better than Laphroaig 10 and QC. I?ll save a little of the sample to try side-by-side with the QC. I?m not a peat-all-the-time sort of guy, but I like to work it in the rotation. With Talisker 10 going for $65+ around me, this might become my next peated purchase. 

Buy a bottle? Going on the list for purchase.

83/100              



Curious Re: NCA - Do you know what year the bottling was from? 

As someone who drank a lot of 8-9 year Ledaig in Scotland about 7 years ago, I recently bought the 10 year and was surprised by its dark colour. (I would say my recent bottle looks considerably more copperish than the image you've used above). 

Do you recall the colour of the dram, and was that the basis for your suggestion of NCA?

Cheers, great stuff isn't it.



Yeah, all the Burn Stewart stuff (so anything since it changed to 46.3%) is supposed to be NCF & NCA.

But wait?is there a NEW new owner, more recent than Burn Stewart?



Heaven in a bottle.

Interesting that you say,

Not a campfire type of peat

when to me this is the definition of the Lagavulin-esque campfire peat.

Also, the QC's peat profile is different enough that I think it ties with the QC, but seeing as it's cheaper around these parts than the QC, it's better value.



I loved, and I mean LOVED this whisky.

Such buttery creaminess, such a great, inexpensive, option for those looking for something mildly peated.



Review #10: Ledaig 10 (Mods tartan me please!)

Hey there Crotchit! Inspired by u/Suck_It_Trebek crotch post I remembered that I do have a similar shot review somewhere thus even though I wanted the 10th review to be something more special, it now is pretty special as it has a crotch nice picture as well as it's a dram held in high regards both among my friends as well as around here...   

Thoughts on reviews are to be found here.

TL;DR:
Quick facts:  10 years old ? 46,3% - ? ? 40
Situation: After a nice round of nightly cross golf in good company and mood :)

Nose: honey, sweet peaches, a sherry-like note as well, malt

Palate: starts with sweet fruits upfront then the pepper hits and dominates everything, it's accompanied by smoke, somehow it turns into a salty ?pre-?finish, tastes stronger than 46.3% to me. Is that peppermint?!?

Finish: Smokey! Very long and intense pepper

Would I buy it again?: meh probably not, I'll give it another try though if I get the chance, the pepper was far to dominant for me, even though the salt of the ?pre-?finish gave it a nice maritime note... 

A good Scotch to be... well I guess it's a good scotch to be drunk with something else, like if you're drinking since its strong peppery taste would hold up to many other tastes. So in reverse, you don't want this malt before dinner or at the beginning of a tasting. Chilli-gurgling, lava spitting Talisker lovers are very likely to like this one! 
Even though it's well loved and praised among my friends, I didn't get behind this one - too much pepper for me. Still it's kinda interesting and also quite complex if you look behind the peppery curtain (which I couldn't really do, therefore I did not include everything I though that is buried in this malt) I'll give it another try if I get the chance though.

Score: 80/100

Quick-Info on the scores: To give you an idea what those numbers mean to me I added the table below. I kept the /100 though to keep it comparable and reviewbotable. Everything below 73 isn't really my type of Scotch even though I accept that my 68 could be your 93 and vice versa... 



@review_bot

Edit: help me u/FlockOnFire what am I doing wrong??



Uh i'm sorry Mister texacer, sir, i didn't i don't i eh i well sorry ?_?

You no like no crotch no?



j4ni's latest reviews:

Hey I'm a bot! Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire.



j4ni's latest MBLAK reviews:

Hey I'm a bot! Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire.



REVIEW #125: Ledaig 10 year - 46.3% abv

Nose:  dry herbal, peat, bright citrus, wet hay, sea spray, damp earth, ginger, pineapple, lemon pith

Taste: white pepper, limoncello, peat, honey, green vegetal, cucumber peel, saltiness

Finish: biscuit, malt, dry oak, white pepper, chives, honey, herbal

Score: 86/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: S?good.  It has a bit more astringency and less sweet/sherry influence than Lagavulin (which I prefer over this, but it?s still good stuff).  I put it somewhere between Laphroaig and Lagavulin on the flavor spectrum. Good amount of peat and smoke blends well with the citrus and creaminess.



Syracuse, NY Prices

Lagavulin 16 sells for $79.77 

Ledaig 10 $47.99

I don't keep track of Laphroaig. 



Agreed - one of my favourites for taste and value. I bought my first bottle in Oct-14 not knowing it'd be one of my favourites and when I went to replenish it a few months later, the dreaded LCBO had no more stock. I ended up getting a friend's father who lives in Scotland to bring me a bottle from his local shop. 

Thankfully, the LCBO restocked in May of this year and I'm now the proud owner of 3 beautiful bottles :)



The Tobermory distillery offers a peated (about 35ppm) offering under the label of Ledaig. And here's a review of it! I tried Tobermory 15 a long while back, and it quite impressed me. I've heard mixed things about Let-chick, as it's pronounced, but I felt like I owed the good people on the Isle of Mull another opportunity to wow me. 43% $50  

Color: Cloudy straw.  

Nose: Dirty peat, burnt rubber, and potpourri.  

Taste: Oily. Smooth. Veggi-peat (think Ardbeg,) black sharpee, and corn husk.  

Finish: Burnt varnish, tallow, bacon grease, and peat smoke.  

Conclusions: An unexpected journey. From appearance to nose to taste to finish, this one kept me on my toes. It seems to be several off-notes that somehow combine make a decent Islay-esque whisky. Like jazz? Yes. The biggest comparison I would make would be Longrow, which is also $50... Say, so are Ardbeg 10, Laddie Ten, and Caol Ila 12. Now that would be a fun line up. 82/100



So this was completely an impulse purchase at my local liquor store as I've seen the name Ledaig a few times and it caught my eye as it was sitting next to a mini of Bunnahabhain 12 which I was getting at the time. My impulse said, "eh, why not?" so I told the clerk to add the mini to my order. I finally got home and took a look and found out that this is a peated Scotch, which I'm not too fond of, but whatever, I'm home already. Apparently distilled and bottled by Tobermory, yet another distiller that I'm not familiar with. So this review should be interesting as this is almost as close to a random bar pour as any.

Ledaig 10 / 46.3% ABV

Setup - Neat in a glencairn

Wallet Damage - February of 2017 / 50mL / ~$9 USD / (after WA state taxes of 20.5% + $3.77/liter), full bottle would probably run ~$90 after taxes

Region/Type: Isle of Mull

Chill-Filtration: NO

Nose - Campfire smoke, earthy peat, light green apple juice.

Taste - Apple/white grape juice concentrate sweetness, campfire ash, white pepper spice.

Finish - Long lingering white pepper spice, campfire ash turns slightly sour/iodine, more artificially sweetened apple juice.

Score - 69/100

Final Thoughts - Not being a huge fan of peated Scotches, this wasn't horrible. It has more of a dry peat versus the wet, rubber, band-aid, heavy iodine of other Islays. That being said, this seems quite one-dimensional as it has a singular tasting sweet mixed with campfire smoke/ash. The finish is a bit disappointing as it transitions slightly into the type of peat I'm not particularly fond of.

Whiskey Network Review #125

NOTE - All reviews are done without factoring in price paid.

EDIT: Updated Chill-Filtration per /u/Batchry88 



If peat is a turn-off, well, ... then there's just more for us!  

I too do not trust minis, and likewise feel that it's important to spend more time with a bottle to have a more complete judgment.  However, I do believe that minis or swaps can help one determine if they should splurge on a full bottle. But after that, I'd rather hear of reviews from someone who's spent time with a bottle rather than a hit-and-run with a sample.  
