I was too late to the scotch game to ever enjoy a bottle of this, so thank you to /u/tvraised me for this sample. It?s really a shame Mac has stopped putting out things like this in favor of its current output. 

Paid: N/A

Distilled/Owned by: Macallan, Edrington Group

Region: Speyside

59% ABV

Aged For: NAS

Chill Filtered/Color Added? : No color added, NCF

Color: Red Mahogany 

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn 

Nose: Rich thick fruitiness. Dark chocolate, raisin, fig, vanilla, coffee, and oak.

Taste: Thick and oily, sherry dominates. With more flavors of vanilla, cherry, ginger, orange, sultana and fudge. 

Finish: Not was warm as the proof would suggest, but a gentle warmth. Lingers long after tasting with notes of sherry and cinnamon. 

Thoughts: ?When Alexander saw the breadth of his domain, he wept for there were no more worlds to conquer.? 

Score: 93/100



Well, I was a scotch newbie when I had first had it, so I was unaware of what cask strength really even was.  Therefore, it all was just too much.  The flavor was at an intensity to where I could not appreciate the sweetness of it, so much, and was overwhelmed by the other flavors of the dram. 

A couple of drops of water changed that, entirely, for me.  Was amazed at the change in taste, to be honest.



Macallan CS - 60.1%, $90 

Nose: Heathered sherry, leather saddle, alcohol burn, musty wood, raisin, treacle syrup. 

Taste: Sherry is heavy first, then a sweet raisin pudding with heather sprinkled on top. Spice at the end.

Finish: The heather and sherry pass first leaving a nice spice to linger.

Notes: This is probably my favorite Macallan expression, a pleasant sherry bomb, not cloying but flavorful. 

87/100



I have here two samples of Macallan CS. One is from /u/ kurt_vonnegunt and the other from /u/xpentakx. Tonight I'll be drinking the one from /u/xpentakx, the other goes back in the box for future reference.  

It has been a frustrating day at work as we gear up for our Christmas rush. I have a laundry list of things I should be doing, but lost my drive. I am still sitting at my desk as I pour, sending one or two emails and tidying up enough loose ends that the wheels won't come completely off tomorrow...

Nose: First whiff is sherry. Very sherry. Some mowed hay and wildflowers. I am finding the vanilla/caramel dessert notes at the end of a long sniff, but the honey wildflower notes are definitely stronger for me. There's a musty grape-like aroma too - maybe we are walking through a hay field that was mowed and then rained on. That was yesterday and this morning the sun is coming up. There's a sickly sweet honeysuckle scent in the air, and there must have been an elderberry or raspberry bush that got mowed too

Mouthfeel: surprisingly thin

Taste: This is definitely a cask strength whisky! Second time around I added a drop or four of water and got ginger, sweetness, grape (oddly not musty this time), and oak. Smoother and more buttery the longer I go. 

Finish: sherry and dessert wines. Reminiscent of the bottle of marsala I finished off after making chicken. Some spice and grape linger.

I am trying to implement a personal rule which allows me to drink scotch only on nights where I had no dessert. Macallan CS very nicely fills any void left by no dessert. I have always enjoyed a good cognac, and I found this scotch is able to serve the same purpose. Unfortunately the rumors suggest that this will never be available again, so I suspect my next sample will be my last taste. At $90 per bottle it's a "maybe I would buy it" but the secondary market is way too steep. 

Score: 90/100  

*edit: score revision after my existential crisis over at http://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/2mqmy8/flaws_in_my_reviews/ Original score was 80/100 due mostly to price. New score is an A-



I'd suggest really chewing on the next batch. I really thought this whiskey was around the same mark about halfway through my first bottle.

After that though, the love affair began.

I would recommend taking smaller sips, and really chewing on it for 10-15 seconds, there is a lot that comes out after the whiskey warms in your mouth.



about halfway through my first bottle

This I am somewhat worried about when reviewing whisky by the sample and not by the bottle.  However, it is by far the best option for me.  So if I ever get a bottle, I'll probably come back and revise my rating if needed, it's the only thing I can think of.  Of course, this is very unlikely since the bottling is dead....



I had the same idea as /u/Dworgi to do a blind taste test between three cask strength sherry bombs to see if I could tell them apart and pick my favorite, though he beat me to the punch. Fortunately, I have Macallan Cask Strength to compare to the A'bunadh and 105; unfortunately, I don't have any of that delicious sounding GlenDronach Cask Strength.

I followed a similar method as /u/Dworgi did and I have used in the past, putting about 30ml from each of the three bottles in identical brandy snifters with a sliver of sticky note that identified the whisky around the stem. I prepared to the tasting myself, so it's really only semi-blind, but I took care to shuffle the glasses around enough that by the time I was all set up I couldn't have guessed which was which. With small pours in a wide bowled snifter, the color all looks pretty much the same. 

Some background: Macallan Cask Strength is my favorite scotch. I've nearly finished my second bottle of it, so I'm very well acquainted with it. It is 60.1% ABV. My bottle of Aberlour A'bunadh is batch 45, weighing in at 60.2%, and I have already reviewed in the community review. Finally, my bottle of Glenfarclas 105 is brand new, and I have only had the chance to enjoy this whisky twice before, neither of which occurrence was recent. It is a flat 60% ABV.

Here we go!

Sherry Bomb #2

Nose: Similar to the first one, but with more oak in the nose. Lots of dried fruits.

Palate: Toffee and dark chocolate are up to bat first, relieved by figs and dates. Fruits stewed in wine. At one point I found myself thinking of a Milky Way bar, which I believe was from a caramel nuance.

Finish: Silky and decadent. Mouth-coating and oily.

Summary: This is more winey than the first, and heavier on the decadent notes rather than the spices. It also handles the ABV very well, and has a thick and layered mouthfeel.

Score: 95/100




Would really like to see how the Cendronach CS weighs up against the Macallan CS!.

But i take it you're in the US (where there appears to be little to no glendronach CS), and here in the UK Macallan CS is loooong gone! :-( Sad times!



TWE still has some left for ?100. Steep but perhaps worth it?

I have a sample from /u/thatguy142, I'll review it soon and let you know what it's like.



It's worth mentioning that Glenfarclas 105 is a close second for me. 

Contrary to /u/Dworgi, I much prefer the Glenfarclas 105 to the A'bunadh. I should check which batch of A'bunadh he had, perhaps that made some difference. 

Edit: he had 46. Is there anyone who has tried batch 45 and batch 46 that can comment on how similar they are?



I grabbed a few bottles in the fall while I could still find it. The funny thing is that the place I bought it from discounted it because it's discontinued.

I hate you.



Thanks to wvlurker and gooshwa for the samples!

Mac CS, 59% ABV

Nose: Strong cherry and toffee. Rich fruit cake and salted butter.Dried figs and dates. A bit flinty and faint wood smoke.

Taste: Warm, rich and oily. Very smooth despite the high ABV. Stewed plums and sweet malt. Salted toffee, dark chocolate and candied ginger. Cinnamon, pepper and vanilla beans. 

Finish: Sweet liquorice, a pinch of sea salt and clove. More dried fruits. Long and dry, with some light herbal notes.

Okay, fine. This one is pretty good. Same score as a'Bunadh.

89/100

Reviews #59-60, thanks for reading.

Woohoo! That's 60 (crappy) reviews in my 6 months on Reddit. If you want to, AMA.



Hiya, congrats. How long have you been into scotch? Reviews? 

Best whisky you've ever had? 



I had my first scotch and coke in the mid-90s, but started drinking single malts in the mid-noughties. I have only been taking it seriously for maybe 4-5 years. I never took notes, but after subscribing to this sub I started writing reviews.

Best. Whisky. Ever.



Might have to wait a few  years to put those two together. 

Where did you get your Tun from? DM? 



Ayedfy sent me his stupid "Solera Blend" as a mystery dram, the sneaky bugger. I didn't archive it for obvious reasons.

Edit: Whoops, wrong person



Macallan Cask Strength

(58.4%, NAS, matured in sherry oak casks, ~$80 CAD)

?

Matured exclusively in sherry oak casks from Jerez, Spain that were previously seasoned with dry Oloroso for 18 months.

?

Nose: Raisins, chocolate, orange, strawberry jam, red apples, hint of rosewater

Taste: Chocolate, orange, black cherries, strawberry jam, toffee, coffee cake, baking spices, ginger

Finish: Cinnamon, strawberry hard candies, red grapes, oak

?

Rich, powerful notes from syrupy sherry goodness? take everything you've ever heard about how great sherry matured whisky can be, and you're guaranteed to find some of it here. A mix of fresh, jammy and rum-soaked dried fruits throughout, with a dessert-like sweetness and spicy warmth. Like Christmas in a glass. The finish was bittersweet and salty, but only as it describes the memories and tears (ok fine, it was spicy, tannic and slightly oaky). 

A big sherried whisky with a proper ABV, to me Mac CS was among the best of the core Macallan expressions. Absolutely decimated its direct rivals in the category of NAS sherried scotch as well. I?ll always have a soft spot for this, as it was also the first whisky that ever gave me that ?aha? moment that comes with clarity in being able to pick out individual flavours.

How the mighty have fallen... 

?

90/100



Macallan Cask Strength sherry 117 proof

it blows away the 12 and 18 and is way cheaper than the 18.  if you want it watered down, just get the non-cask strength versions and have those neat.

98/100



A richly sherried beast from Macallan - this has, unfortunately, been discontinued.

58.4% abv. NAS. The Macallan does not artificially color their whiskies, to the best of my knowledge.

Thanks to /u/jacksdrumshop for the sample.

Nose - Raisins, dried figs, basically every dark dried fruit for that matter, cinnamon, clove, Mexican chocolate, gingerbread, allspice. This one smells spicy as much as fruity, with very nice deep, rich sherry aromas. 

Taste - Fresh dark cherries and dark dried fruit lead off. The development brings the spices ? cinnamon, clove, allspice, and even some cayenne, with a nice dark chocolate note and some gingersnap cookies. Nice, rich feel to it.

Finish - The spices linger, with raisin and dark chocolate, and a tangy dark cherry note eventually making an appearance.

This is a classic sherry monster. As it is NAS I have to believe there is some fairly young whisky in this, and the bold spiciness of the flavors back that up. That said, though the maturation here for part of this was likely short, it was well done ? I?d guess this is primarily, if not completely first fill casks at work here. This is my favorite Macallan I?ve had (yes, including the 18), and to me it?s quite a shame they?ve done away with anything reasonably priced that has a flavor profile like this. It seems like the fairly newly released Rare Cask should have a similar composition prior to it being watered down to 43%, except that one costs 5x what this did. I would say pour one out for Mac CS, but it?s too damn good to do that. If you can?t find this, get some A?Bunadh.

91/100



Atmosphere: Pub in Ottawa, wide selection but mostly entry level scotches. Busy place, lots of hipsters. 1 pint deep when I got the scotch list. 

Appearance:  Served in a tumbler. Deep ruby red, bit its dark in the bar too. No legs. 

Nose: neat:  Heavy sherry nose. Alcohol evident, almonds, honey, almost smell corn, spices..cinnamon? Nutmeg for sure.

Taste: neat: Sherry, ridiculously smooth given the abv, licorice, alcohol very present but not over powering, grapes, nuts, honey, raisins, 

Finish: Musty fruit, prunes, oaky honey, incredibly warm. 

Rating: 90/100

Added 3 drops of water. Didn't find the nose changed at all. On the palate I got a lot more of the spices that I smelled up front. More oak now.  Strangely seemed less smooth after water. Tasted the alcohol more. Probably prefer it neat. A very complex, warm, fruity scotch. Confirms that I enjoy smoke and peat more, but still a very enjoyable dram.



Time for my third Scotch review (as two of the other reviews I did were of Whiskies not from Scotland).

While in Newfoundland on vacation, I finally had a chance to try Macallan Sherry Cask Strength. This is the first Cask Strength whiskey I've tried, and I am smitten. I decided to purchase some Newfoundland specific wines instead of buying a bottle while there, thinking I'd be able to buy this either in Ontario or (next year) in Scotland.

It was then that I was informed by /r/Scotch that the cask strength was being discontinued. And with that announcement, the price jumped from 70$ a bottle in Newfoundland to 100$ a bottle in Ontario.

Price: 99$ (Ontario, Canada)

Region: Highland

Alcohol %: 58.5%

Colour: Light Coffee with Brick Dust

Nose: Caramel, raisins, Christmas Cake, toffee, currants, sherry, cherries, hot toddy on a winter day, nutmeg, brown sugar

Taste: Raisins, some alcohol burn, candied lemon peel, sherry, togarishi pepper, smoke, brown sugar

Finish: huge sherry, chilli, light bacon, apple, cranberry wine, espresso

Conclusion: This is tied with Ardbeg Uigeadail for some of the best whisky I've ever tried. I am now considering buying another bottle, though I'll probably wait until Macallan releases another cask strength. I'd recommend anyone try this, even if you aren't a sherry cask or Highland region fan.

90/100



only 90?!

also, you may not want to wait for Macallan to release another...



Yes, only 90. I'm not the nicest of reviewers (see my review of Chivas 18), and I like to leave space for potentially better whiskies in the future.

I'm hopeful on Macallan releasing another, however I have asked for a bottle for Christmas, just in case.
