Macallan 15 Fine Oak 43% ABV

Second of three samples sent to me by Texacer. Up next is Glenfarclas 17.

Color: Deep gold.

Nose: Sweet, oak, floral, spiced/peppered malt, honey with vanilla. Hints of light, ripe red fruits. A bit of water brings out nice, oily, earthy undertones at the end of the nose.

Taste: Medium-full body. Spiced malt, vanilla, lots of oak, very sweet and honeyed with red fruits. Very peppered and floral. Water brings out the red fruits much more.

Finish: Warm, long, and spicy. So much oak and vanilla! A bit of water really mellows it out, which brings down the spice, but it throws it off balance a bit.

Overall: This is a fantastic dram. I want to buy a bottle and mellow out by the pool all day with this. So nicely balanced between spices and sweetness. Very mellow, yet with a few choice overarching flavors. Fine oak is a very good name as the oak really takes the reins of the drinking experience from nose to finish. I would highly recommend this dram.

Total: 93/100



Hello all, Hailchaos here with my 2nd review.  I've been working on trying as many new scotches as possible, all while taking notes that I'll be submitting over the next couple of days.  The first one I will start with is the Macallan 15.

Finish - A nice long finish that sticks around long enough to be appreciated before ending with a little more sweetness to finish off the experience.

Score - 84/100 - I expected a little more from this dram after the reviews I've read here.  That being said, it was certainly not a bad dram, but I feel that it wasn't quite worth the price.



I've had 2 bottles of the 15 Fine Oak so far, and both bottles have been empty soon after purchase, I really don't notice how fast I'm drinking this stuff. On merit of taste alone, I'd say it's pretty good stuff.  It should probably be bottled at 46%, especially considering what they are asking for it.

I agree that any Macallan bottle past their 12 does seem to trend towards outrageously overpriced.  I've had the 18 a couple times, no question it's good scotch, but worth maybe like 60% of the asking price.  So many other good 18's that can manage to sell for $100 or under that the Macallan can't really compete in terms of value.



Basic Scotch Review #1 - Macallan Fine Oak 15 (r/Scotch Review #14)

?

To set the stage Urban Dictionary defines basic as:

?An adjective used to describe any person, place, activity involving obscenely obvious behavior, dress, action. Unsophisticated. Transparent motives.?

Pretty much everyone has heard of Macallan.  In fact, many who know nothing about scotch will make a beeline to the Macallan bottles when walking into a liquor store for a gift. This review series (to be continued with more Macallan and Johnnie Walker) is an ode to those that don?t know anything about scotch and base their purchases on the brand to impress.  That being said, I?ve had a fair amount of the scotch that will eventually comprise this series and they?re not terrible, just not great.  The JW Black in particular can be a great daily drinker for the money.

Rested 10 minutes - Neat in a Copita.

?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Speyside

Abv: 43%

Colour: Apple juice

?

Basic Notes

Colour: not super dark, maybe this means it wasn?t aged for very long like the Macallan Ruby.

Nose: Alcohol and some sweet stuff.

Taste Smooth.  Enough said.

Finish: What?s a finish?

?

Real Notes

Nose: Getting some very textbook bourbon notes.  Reminds me of the bourbon notes you would get in the standard Aberlour 12.  Vanilla, apple juice, some baking spices.  At the same time, underneath that I get some light sherry notes.  Red fruits.  I?m also getting some clay/mineral notes and hint of wood on the back end.  With some time, I?m getting some more green/exotic fruits, and the bourbon notes start to really come to the front.  There is now this hint of tart and almost rotten fruit and cherry nyquil.  Quite pleasant now as I appreciate the contrast.

Taste: mouth feel is pretty thin which likely has to do with the chill-filtration and 43% abv. Apples, watered-down red fruits, mulling spices, vanilla and wood from the bourbon barrels.  I couldn?t find too much information regarding the split between the maturation in bourbon and sherry barrels, but if I had to guess I would say the majority of the time was spent in bourbon, with a finishing in sherry given how prominent the notes of vanilla, wood and spice are.  This reminds me a lot of the Kirkland 18 Sherry Cask Finish I reviewed a while back (matured in primarily ex-bourbon barrels).  Apple is very prominent, but there is almost always an undercurrent of light sherry.

Finish: drying wood, more of the light red fruits which are almost artificially sweetened.  Not too long, but not too short either.  

?

Conclusion: I really enjoyed this.  It?s simple, with very solid bourbon notes, and despite only a (potential) finishing in ex-sherry, I?m constantly reminded that it?s there.  The interplay between the two casks is nice and not heavy-handed.  Definite quality to me, especially when compared to the vague recollection I have of some of the NAS stuff.  Quite a shame actually how much quality has gone down.  I would buy a bottle without regret if this if it were still available.  It?s a daily drinker with enough bells and whistles to keep it interesting.

?

Basic Score:

Impresses 6/10 People - it?s no Macallan 18 or Johnnie Blue

?

Real Score:

84/100

?

Shout out to u/Lasidar for this sample!  Despite the joke-y nature of this review, I was really excited to try this.  Prior to this, I had zero experience with age-stated Macallans and thoroughly enjoyed drinking this for my review.



Haha yea I'd take a GD SC any day over this ;)

But given how bad I felt the NAS macallans were that I have tried I was pleasantly surprised!

Thanks again for the sample!



Here's the Urban Dictionary definition of Basic : 

An adjective used to describe any person, place, activity involving obscenely obvious behavior, dress, action.

Unsophisticated.

Transparent motives.

Pat was trying to fuck that drunk girl - so basic.

Shelby was showing off her tits for attention - fucking basic.

about | flag for glitch | Summon: urbanbot, what is something?



Hello Scotchit! I've been dabbling in scotch for a few months now and figured it was time for me to write up my first review. Just for reference, I started on Dewars, Chivas Regal 12, and Johnnie Walker Red and Black - all of which were enough to grab my interest but nothing really special. Recently I've tried both Glenlivet 15 and 18 and the Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban 12 year - which until now was my favorite. 

The Macallan 15 Fine Oak

43% ABV, US $79.99

Color: Golden, straw, honey

Nose: Fruity, flowery, almost wooden, sweet, cinnamon, spicy, sherry

Palate: Light, orange, chocolate, cherry, vanilla. For some reason hard candy or those cherry Luden's cough drops comes to mind - but in a good way

Finish: Lingering, chocolate/vanilla, dried fruit, slightly medicinal, oak, spicy

88/100 - I had a dram tonight by the fireplace - it's all rainy and gloomy outside here. Very light, smooth and sippable scotch. Not as sweet as the Glenmorangie but still filled with flavor, with the orange, chocolate and that hard candy cherry being the most prominent to my tastes. Possibly my favorite scotch that I've had so far but I'm going to need a few more tries to be certain. A little pricey so I'm not sure if I'd buy it again, but who knows.



I attended the NYC "Raise the Macallan" event last night. I thought I'd do some quick reviews. Take them with a grain of salt, as I prefer to review at home over a couple of slowly savored drams. I'm not able to provide a ton of detailed notes, but I'm pretty confident in my overall impression of these. 

For a quick review of the event itself: we were poured a full dram of the 10 year Fine Oak as we milled around a room that featured several exhibits: a blind nosing station, an example of one of Macallan's unusually small copper stills, a few of their ridiculously expensive bottles in a glass case, a couple of leather chairs in front of a Macallan backdrop where you could have a professional photographer take your picture. 

We were then shown into the tasting room and seated at tables with other attendees. The emcee was Craig, a Macallan brand ambassador. Friendly, corny. His video-assisted presentation went over a lot of basics of what single malt Scotch whisky is, which I found to be a waste of time but I imagine newbies would appreciate. There were interactive touchscreens at each table where we were polled about how we liked to drink our whisky and flavor notes we detected in each sample. Kind of fun to see which answers got the most votes. The most cringeworthy part of the event was multiple exhortations to post about the event on social media using their hashtags and whatnot. You know that stock character of the record company exec with the slicked-back ponytail who calls you "babe"? This event felt like interacting with that guy. You know he has a lot of money and you're kind of impressed and flattered that he's giving you the time of day, but he's out of touch and not vibing on your level and trying to sell you on something that rubs you the wrong way. And yet it's hard to bag on it too hard, obviously a lot of effort was put into this and it was free, so I do appreciate that. Here are my impressions of the samples:




Very happy to discover this sub, which has been the source of much wisdom. Here's my little contribution. 

ABV: 43% 

I paid $76 for a gift box, which included a couple of these handy glasses. 

I?ve had Macallan 12 a couple of times and liked it, so I thought I?d give this a try. I got this a couple of weeks ago, before I discovered the store I mentioned in my other post.

Color: Caramel with a distinct reddish-orange tint

Nose: Smells like a fruit cake: I get a little honey, orange, candied fruit, and sweet spice like cinnamon and nutmeg. Also a good dose of malt along with some leather. 

Taste: Not as fruity on the tongue as I would have expected. More oak, tasty malt, and honey, with subtle fruit and spice. Maybe a hint of chocolate or something? Hard to say. 

Finish: Again quite oaky and tannic. Can?t say I notice much fruit on the finish, which is long and spicy. 

I liked this more on the second tasting than I did the first time. It?s definitely tasty, but the nose led me to expect more complexity than I found on the palate. 

I?ll give it 87/100.



Life's short; drink the good stuff

Aye



Raise the Macallan is an event and tasting to help introduce new and experienced scotch drinkers alike to the Macallan line. It was a free event. Here are some notes on my experience, as well as the whiskies I tasted.

Before you started the tasting, Macallan provided hors d'oeuvres and plenty of Macallan 10 year to go around. If you were VIP, you could have gotten to take a crack at a bottle of the 12. After ogling a $50,000, 60 year old bottle and debating whether to take a picture with a booth babe, we came to the highlight of the pre-event. It was a table with a bunch of decanters that had each flavor that you would find in the Macallan. Citrus, vanilla, fruits, chocolate, etc... You smelled these flavors and then went to a ipad stand that let you pick three of your favorite flavors and then the app would spit out a Macallan reccomendation. The app recommended the 15 Fine Oak for me and the 12 Sherry on a second shot. I thought it was a pretty cool thing that they put together there. After that, they quickly ushered us into the tasting room, to be given on over-stylized presentation and a formal tasting of four bottles of Macallan: the 10 year fine oak, the 12 sherry, the 15 year fine oak and the 18 sherry.

I already own a bottle of the 10 year fine oak at 80 proof and did a review of it here. At the tasting they happened to have the new and "improved" 86. It would sell for $45 now, while I got my 80 proof bottle at $35. I thought the 80 proof was fantastic, eclipsing even my previous favorite - the Macallan 12. 

Review #34

Macallan 15 Year Fine Oak (86 proof)

Nose: cinnamon, burst of fresh berries, apples, pear, all tossed in honey, coco

Taste: warming honey, tea, cinnamon, fresh fruits

Finish: medium length, dark chocolate, tea, honey

Overall: Fantastic! I was incredibly surprised by how good this stuff was. It was just bursting with flavor, despite the low proof. Fresh, fruity and sweet with a baking spice backbone. It was well-rounded and impeccably balanced. It was voted the favorite 3 to 5 by my group of friends. (including my girlfriend and I) I told my g/f that if she liked it, I shall buy her a bottle. So I go ahead and check the price and it is...$100! Fuck. That. Shit.

Rating: Epic (91/100)




What was this Brazillian sweet carbonated beverage? Hereabouts and Japan, it's just mixed with soda water and ice. Classic highball.  

Anyway, timely review again! I was deliberating on a Fine Oak purchase. Strangely though, what's available here are the 80 proof 12 and 17. Strange. 



Something's wrong with the newest Mac 18.

I remember it from 4-5 years ago as amazing.

Went to a raise the Mac in NYC and the 18 was so terribly flat.



So I go ahead and check the price and it is...$100! Fuck. That. Shit.

Heh Macallan's no-age-statement Amber is out where I live and it's $110.  Cask Strength is still 70, in comparison.   Macallan 12 is 85.

Prices are craaaaaazy!



Macallan 15 Fine Oak 43% I reviewed this one before here where I incorrectly stated the ABV as 40%. My bad. At this point in the presentation we were told about Macallan's "curiously small stills" which did indeed look rather stumpy.  

color: red gold.  

nose: fresh... bourbon, blueberry, and grass.  

taste: crisp & sweet... honey, brown sugar, cinnamon, maple, and dark chocolate.  

finish: oaky & warming... sherry oak, bourbon oak, mesquite, pretzel bread, raisin, cashew, and almond. Lingering.  

conclusions: very good finish on this one. I still really like it and why change the score? 88/100  


I was feeling no pain by the end of the Balvenie event. The pours for the tasting were small, but the pours you exchanged tokens for were pretty generous. 



This is: the 15 year old offering in the Fine Oak line from big Mac. Unlike their sherry matured "Traditional" line Fine Oaks are matured in both bourbon and sherry casks. This is my fourth Mac, previously having two Cask Strengths and, on several occasions, the 12 Traditional -- which I never liked. 40%ABV, $90  

Color: dark amber.  

Nose: sweet... honey, oak, blueberry, and lavender.  

Taste: dry, smooth, & bittersweet... cherry, apple, unripe strawberries, malt, dark chocolate, and mead.  

Finish:  oaksplosion!... Bunnahabhain-like kettle-corn, more honey, roasted pine nuts, cashews, also raisin-sherry, red wine, and ginger.  

Conclusions: waaay better than the 12. The 40% didn't bother me a bit, and in fact this is the 2nd highest-scoring 80-proofer I've tried. Not overly complex, but what's there is very tasty. Like a polar vortex, only wood. A wood vortex. Good heavens Macallan no wonder people like you! 88/100  

Comparisons:
Mac CS 59% - 90/100
Mac CS 57% - 90/100
Mac 12 Sherry - 76/100



40%? Not 43%?

I think the 43% is pure honeycomb. Just delicious. But I ain't spending $90 on no 15 year old - fuck that.



Definitely. I always have a bottle of the 12 year around, it's still one of my favorites. After the 12 year though, I don't think there is any real value for what you are getting, even if the whiskies themselves are good.

I really do recommend Arran. I've had the 10, 12 CS, and 14. Really good, creamy single malts.



I went to the  distillery on Island (one of the most beautiful islands I've ever been to). But I have loved the Arran 10 since then

Edit: Spelling



Appearance: Amber

Nose: Apple, pear, vanilla, some oak and mild floral notes.

Taste: Sweet and light, definite apple on the taste, mild wood spice.

Finish: Some bitter oak in the after taste, with some lingering sweet apple.

Score: 79/100

There isn't much complexity here. It isn't a bad whisky, it just isn't really anything special. Considering the price they charge, you would be better off just getting Glenfiddich 12. They have almost identical taste profiles, and you can get 2 or 3 Glenfiddich's for the price of 1 Macallan.



Submission added to database (but not yet archived in the official Whisky Review Archive, please do so manually).

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire
