Macallan 10 Fine Oak 40% Neat ~$40

Seems like a pretty solid choice for ~$40 dollars. Refreshing and I could drink this any time any day. I am fairly sad about this being discontinued especially after reading the handful of reviews of Macallan's new line up.

82/100

Review 17: Macallan 10, Fine Oak, 40%abv, ~$35 at Trader Joe's

80/100

Very boring and bland. Not my style.



Nice reviews!

The Hakushu should have been on /r/Worldwhisky, though. 



Hello /r/scotch - here with my twenty-third review. I picked this bottle up a few months ago at Total Wine for a cool $40. I've always loved the regular Macallan, and this is my first venture into the Fine Oak series.

Nose Really bright & salty malt right off the bat. Very clean presentation of the grain. Sherry fairly subtle on the nose - oloroso? Doesn't quite seem like PX is involved. Some nice crisp pear at the end.

Mouthfeel Really nice oils going on here - medium weight

Palate Malty up front becoming sweeter on mid/rear palate. Sherry influence is much more evident here. Perfect blend of oak/sherry/malt in my opinion - slightly peppery as well to add just a little spice in there.

Finish Spiced malt with a slight burn, sherry leaves a pleasant raisin taste lingering

Balance I love when scotches introduce sherry in the perfect amount. 

Rating 90/100 - I'm very impressed with this. I didn't have super high expectations given I hadn't had any of the fine oak and it was only $40, but this was a very pleasant surprise. I think if you're looking to get into sherried whiskies, this is a great stepping stone.

Value for the money If you haven't had this, I would definitely recommend picking up a bottle at retail. This probably just cracked my top 3 for best scotches under $50.



Nice review. I was under the impression sherry wasn't used in the maturation of the Fine Oak series, although I may be wrong. 

While I don't love Macallan as much as you clearly do (the only one I loved was the old Cask Strength and even that scored a mere point higher than you scored this), I do feel that the Fine Oak series was a little underrated. I compared the Sherry 10 to the Fine Oak 12 and was more impressed by the Fine Oak - more developed and sophisticated, and I wouldn't just put that down to the age difference.



Scotch_Fanatic here with a quick review. Today i'm trying out my first Macallan. Let's see how it is. Slainte!

Macallan 10 Fine Oak

Color Dark honey

Nose Very oaky, honey, orange marmelade, hints of fruit and malt.

Palate Creamy and nice mouth feel, honey, ripe fruits, dry oak, orange zest. 

Finish Creamy, short.

TL;DR Smooth with oak. Meh.

Macallan succeeded making a very inoffensive(boring) whisky. The overly oaky nose kind of kills this for me. It gets slightly better on the palate, the creamy honey sweetness is nice. Overall this is uninspiring, and just kind of meh. 

Overall, 67/100



This is definitely a boring dram, but it's good with a tiny bit of ice on a hot day. It's very light.

While I recognize the gripes about their emphasis on marketing and such, I do still enjoy their sherry oak stuff; don't write the distillery off completely. 



Give the Macallan 17 Fine Oak a try, right next to the 10. You'll see a massive difference and I think you'll enjoy what eight years does to a Macallan fine oak.

NOTE: no my math isn't wrong - the Macallan 17 Fine Oak is actually an 18 year old whiskey. They re-branded it as a marketing ploy so as not to confuse people with their other 18 (the flagship of their line). Source - Kieron Elliott, Macallan's West Coast ambassador.



I attended the NYC "Raise the Macallan" event last night. I thought I'd do some quick reviews. Take them with a grain of salt, as I prefer to review at home over a couple of slowly savored drams. I'm not able to provide a ton of detailed notes, but I'm pretty confident in my overall impression of these. 

For a quick review of the event itself: we were poured a full dram of the 10 year Fine Oak as we milled around a room that featured several exhibits: a blind nosing station, an example of one of Macallan's unusually small copper stills, a few of their ridiculously expensive bottles in a glass case, a couple of leather chairs in front of a Macallan backdrop where you could have a professional photographer take your picture. 

We were then shown into the tasting room and seated at tables with other attendees. The emcee was Craig, a Macallan brand ambassador. Friendly, corny. His video-assisted presentation went over a lot of basics of what single malt Scotch whisky is, which I found to be a waste of time but I imagine newbies would appreciate. There were interactive touchscreens at each table where we were polled about how we liked to drink our whisky and flavor notes we detected in each sample. Kind of fun to see which answers got the most votes. The most cringeworthy part of the event was multiple exhortations to post about the event on social media using their hashtags and whatnot. You know that stock character of the record company exec with the slicked-back ponytail who calls you "babe"? This event felt like interacting with that guy. You know he has a lot of money and you're kind of impressed and flattered that he's giving you the time of day, but he's out of touch and not vibing on your level and trying to sell you on something that rubs you the wrong way. And yet it's hard to bag on it too hard, obviously a lot of effort was put into this and it was free, so I do appreciate that. Here are my impressions of the samples:

Macallan 10 Fine Oak, 43%

Nose: Pineapple, Sharpie, lilac

Taste: Thin. Almond, green grape, butter on toast

Finish: Decently long. Bitter almond predominates.

Middling. I'd rather buy a decent affordable blend such as Monkey Shoulder. 75/100


I dunno. Except for the 15, all of these share a thin and bitter character that is off-putting to me. I guess I'm not really a Macallan sort of guy? Oh well. Had a good time, though.



Greetings, r/scotch! I break away from my Lowland/Campbletown tour and--well--head to the bar. This is one of the very few bar reviews I've done on here, so I tried to get as much out of the experience as possible. When I was first trying to knock off the Recommendations for Beginners list, this was the only one I purposefully skipped over, mostly because the distillery as a whole sort of rubbed me the wrong way . . . . 

Macallan 10 Fine oak, Speyside Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 40% abv; $54.99 for a 750mL bottle; enjoyed a neat dram

Color: Pale white wine

Nosing: Heavy sweetness, candied fruit, ripe green apples, oaky vanilla, honey

Tasting: Delicate, sweet vanilla, green apples, tannic

Finish: Spicy, warm, floral, herbal tea, short-medium length

Score: 82/100

The nose took me by surprise. For a 40 percenter, that was some heavy sweet fruit notes and even the palate--while incredibly delicate--was more "packed" than I expected. All in all, my expectations were low and I feel like they were more than met here. This was a much more pleasant experience for me than the standard Macallan 12. A little more depth and complexity, albeit still pretty boring. 

Macallan just ain't for me, but if someone where trying to get into whisky and for whatever reason really wanted to begin with Macallan, I would probably steer them in the direction of the 10 Fine Oak . . . if it's still around by then, that is. 

Scotch whisky review #79

Whisky reviews #106



When referring to the Macallan 12 are we talking Fine Oak or Sherry Oak? I assume Fine Oak. 

I also happen to agree with OP. Its not a bad scotch by any means. I think its a great transition if someone wants to try scotches who was originally an Irish whisky drinker. Its super clean but has that flavor component. Certainly too "boring" now for me. I doubt I'll buy another fine oak again as my palate has changed and I prefer a more robust scotch.



Hey there Scotchit! I'm hurrying through my Beginner's List Reviews since I got a little bored of it, mostly because of the malts. It's still fun to review them and it gets easier to recognize different flavors constantly and reproducible or at least a little more constantly :)
By chance this was part of a round of sweet to very sweet malts I reviewed the last weeks (Dalwhinnie, the Bunna, aCnoc, Chiva's, Glenmo Tusail,...still have to transfer them from my little black book to reddit...). Macallan is a big name with quite a reputation even though around here it doesn't get that much love as in the ?real world? where millions of none scotchit people buy tons of Macallan without letting us know...anyhow here's number six of my mini-series of reviews of malts from the Beginner's list. The other are to be found here:

MBLAK #1: Glenfarclas 12 including an explanation

MBLAK #2: Glenfiddich 12

MBLAK #3:  Glenmorangie The Original

MBLAK #4:  Dalwhinnnie 15

MBLAK #5:  Bunnahabhain 12

Thoughts on reviews are to be found here

TL;DR:
Quick facts:  10 years old - 40% - ? 77? in Germany

Nose: Honey or maybe more like brown sugar and malt both very prominent, there are some hints of fruits in the back however not very present and covered in a pile of sweet oaky malt (well who would've thought considering that name...)

Palate: initial honeysweetness almost like artificial sweetner, then comes oaky vanilla and malt, very much inline with nose and very, well, smooth in a way that there are no corners or things that stood out. A very monolithic taste so to say. Maybe it's just me and I can't stand another super sweet malt, but I would call this one boring...not bad, very well made indeed but too round and too sweet for me

Finish: middle long, the sweetnes fades into a mild peppery taste which is actually pretty nice! The finish is the best part of this malt for me.

Conclusion: I was quite shocked when I looked up the price of a whole bottle. I know that everyone is talking about their steep prices but boy, 77 Euros woah!...if I would take that into the score it would be significantly lower!
When I look at the word cloud in the Beginner's list there are some flavors mentioned (though not that big) that I didn't get with the Macallan Fine Oak 10, especially the fruit notes where hidden for me. It was all it says on the label: Sweet, Malt, Oak. Then a refreshing peppery finish. Inoffensive one could say. Other may say boring. I'm somewhere inbetween. But for me it's definetly not worth to pay 77 Euros for it...you and the world may disagree but that's OK for me.

Would I buy it again?: At that price?! No way!

Score: 77/100 okeyish, I liked the Bunna 12 far more, maybe I was a little too critical with 
the Bunna. Again, I can see why this is popular with people, but for me it's a little to edgeless.  

Quick-Info on the scores: To give you an idea what those numbers mean to me I added the table below. I kept the /100 though to keep it comparable and reviewbotable. Everything below 73 isn't really my type of Scotch even though I accept that my 68 could be your 93 and vice versa... 

The full story behind the dram (if you've got the time for that...) There's none to be honest, it's a big name, it's on the list, I drank it and it's not made for me. I'm very interested in the rest of the range though, if it wasn't for the price! So, if any European swappers read this, I'm up for swapping for Macallans! :)



Review # 94 

Macallan 10 Fine Oak 10  40% Swap Schmibitar (Thank You Sir!)

Color:  Amber +1, Diluted Apple Juice, Quick Wide tears and Legs.

Nose:  Citrus, Oak, Vanilla, Honey, Lemon Cake, Cereal Barley, Sugar Syrup, Sweet, Walnuts, Almonds, Lemon Zest, Grapefruit.

Mouth Feel:  Medium Oily, Easy Spice.

Taste:  Honey, White Pepper, Oaky, Lemon Zest, Grassy, Hay, Pear, Chamomile, Cardamon, Turnips, Sage, Pine. 

Finish:  Herbal Tea, Sweet Syrup, Citrus, Dry Grass, Table Water Crackers, Aluminum, Baking Powder.

With Water:  Nose:  Sweet Caramel, Almond, Honey Comes Back and Vanilla, Shortbread Cookies.
Taste:  Sweeter, Honey and Syrup, White Pepper, Ginger, Almonds, Walnuts, Green Mint.

Score:  Nose:  21.5,  Taste:  21,  Finish:  20,  Balance:  21,   Total: 83.5

This whisky reminds me of Glen Grant a bit - nutty character with citrus and honey, not overly complex.  I have had this one, the 15 and 17 Fine Oak as well at the Raise the Macallan events.  They are pretty decent, a bit overpriced,  but in my opinion their best line is the sherry - for as long as they can keep it flowing.  It could be a good daily dram if it were a bit less expensive.  For me I would turn to Old Pultney or Glenmorangie Original for a better daily dram option. 



Review #106

Received this as a gift awhile back, not sure how I feel about the ?Fine Oak? line as a whole.

My other Macallan reviews:

Macallan 10 Fine Oak, 40% abv, Speyside

Nose: Light linen, clean malt, lemon tree, clover honey, cereal, stale water. 

Palate: Touch of stale white pepper, clean, airy, light floral and grassy. Hot green tea.

Finish: Malty sweetness turns bitter and metallic. Salty lemon juice and very fresh oak start to dominate. Slowly drying.

80/100

Not a fan of the style or execution personally, but this a very elegant dram.



yeah I know, its a common error because of that.  because speyside is in the middle of the Highlands, but its considered a speyside, just like Glenlivet or Glenfiddich.  

plenty of people thing Highland Park is part of the Highland region too, I fix both of these all the time in the archive.



Here's the part where I say don't tell me how to live my life. 

Seriously though, it all makes sense now. I also saw mention of Hebrides, which I guess also explains Bruichladdich's damned slogan.



Raise the Macallan is an event and tasting to help introduce new and experienced scotch drinkers alike to the Macallan line. It was a free event. Here are some notes on my experience, as well as the whiskies I tasted.

Before you started the tasting, Macallan provided hors d'oeuvres and plenty of Macallan 10 year to go around. If you were VIP, you could have gotten to take a crack at a bottle of the 12. After ogling a $50,000, 60 year old bottle and debating whether to take a picture with a booth babe, we came to the highlight of the pre-event. It was a table with a bunch of decanters that had each flavor that you would find in the Macallan. Citrus, vanilla, fruits, chocolate, etc... You smelled these flavors and then went to a ipad stand that let you pick three of your favorite flavors and then the app would spit out a Macallan reccomendation. The app recommended the 15 Fine Oak for me and the 12 Sherry on a second shot. I thought it was a pretty cool thing that they put together there. After that, they quickly ushered us into the tasting room, to be given on over-stylized presentation and a formal tasting of four bottles of Macallan: the 10 year fine oak, the 12 sherry, the 15 year fine oak and the 18 sherry.

I already own a bottle of the 10 year fine oak at 80 proof and did a review of it here. At the tasting they happened to have the new and "improved" 86. It would sell for $45 now, while I got my 80 proof bottle at $35. I thought the 80 proof was fantastic, eclipsing even my previous favorite - the Macallan 12. 

Review #34

Macallan 10 Year Fine Oak (86 proof)

Nose: white raisin, linen, citrus, vanilla, cereal

Taste: sweet citrus, creamy cake, frosted flakes, apple jacks; low viscosity  

Finish: short, cereal and slight sweet cake

Overall: You would think this would be better with the extra proof - but it isn't. It comes off more boozy, less drinkable and unfortunately more timid than the 80 proof brethren. Either quality has comparatively diminished for this particular malt or it does much better when diluted to the minimum. 

Rating: Damn Good (82/100)

This one isn't a re-review, but a nice exercise to see how my palate has changed. I would say it hasn't for this one - see for yourself.




What was this Brazillian sweet carbonated beverage? Hereabouts and Japan, it's just mixed with soda water and ice. Classic highball.  

Anyway, timely review again! I was deliberating on a Fine Oak purchase. Strangely though, what's available here are the 80 proof 12 and 17. Strange. 



Something's wrong with the newest Mac 18.

I remember it from 4-5 years ago as amazing.

Went to a raise the Mac in NYC and the 18 was so terribly flat.



So I go ahead and check the price and it is...$100! Fuck. That. Shit.

Heh Macallan's no-age-statement Amber is out where I live and it's $110.  Cask Strength is still 70, in comparison.   Macallan 12 is 85.

Prices are craaaaaazy!
