Macallan 18 ABV 43%

Nose: Sweet fruity cake. Comes on soft and fizzles quickly. Not a great nose for me.

Taste: I tasted wood, then wood, and then more wood. 

The only thing I could specifically taste was the barrel it had been sitting in for 18 years. My dad mentioned honey and smoothness, and I would have to agree with the smoothness. It was so smooth that there was no transition of flavors. They were muddled. I thought the first sip was outstanding, and then I could only taste wood. Bad batch maybe?

83/100




The Macallan 18 - 43%

Nose: Not nearly as big as the 12; sherry doesn't dominate (for the better). Butterscotch and chocolate and a touch of figs and tea leaves.

Taste: Quite sweet. Lots of sherry with a hint of tobacco and chocolate.

Finish: Long and warm. Musty, bitter, sherry oak.

Conclusions: The 18 had a lot going for it but like the 12 I feel the cask quality is holding it back.

Rating: 85



Review 9: Macallan 18 Sherry

Nose
Very sweet strawberry jelly, dried cherries, nice rich cinnamon, a buttery flaky pastry, blast of coca-cola, hint of menthol tobacco, some rotten egg marshy funk (like you get driving into a place like Charleston, SC for those familiar).  

Taste
Red fruits and strawberry glaze, with a pleasant woodiness from the oak layered in.  A little dark chocolate with cherry filling.  Definitely a strength for me.

Finish
Medium-long length, strawberry glaze, oak, alternating with the occasional dose of sulfur.

Overall
The sherry is strong here but it?s tempered by the oak.  You're getting along great and then, like that coworker you didn?t invite to your christmas party, some sulfur funk shows up.  It?s there, it?s not subtle, its presence is clearly felt, but it doesn?t ruin this for me.  It hurts overall but there is too much positive going on here for it to sink this ship.  The flavor and balance is so nice that you tend to forgive and forget. 

86/100



Thanks for sharing this.

I have the 12 at home, and I enjoy it. Coming from mostly Bourbon, the sherry cask affect was a nice change. I'm still getting used to smelling the sherry when I place the glass next to me. It was a little off-putting at first, but it has definitely grown on me.

When I go the gulf coast beaches in Florida, I like to let my window down and take in the sweet, funky, salty air. Is that the direction the sulfur note is going or is it something else?



Hey everyone, this will be my 24th Review. This bottle's pricing regularly goes from $200-$300 in the various stores I buy my scotch from. And because it's sherried, I honestly never thought I would pay for a full bottle of this. So I didn't. Actually, I ended up having a glass of this at a friend's birthday party. Second pour, after the birthday girl of course. So, will this sherried scotch teach me to start favoring sweet whisky?

Macallan 18, Sherry Oak, 43% ABV, had it for free at a friend's party but can get it for $210 at KL Wines

93.5/100 (I'll round up for the archive)

A great whisky. You can tell throughout the drink that its age plays an important role. It's a more refined and more complex version of the Macallan 12. I'm not sure if the difference in pricing is worth it, but I cannot lie about how delicious this was. Smooth, inoffensive, just the right amount of sherry and oak influence, and subtlety resulting from its age. I honestly could have finished at least a third of the bottle if it was mine. At the moment, this is my favorite sherried whisky, but also the one I'm least likely to buy a full bottle of any time soon.



I just opened a bottle to celebrate a promotion a few weeks ago. I started drinking it and enjoying it. I put it down for 30 minutes and when I came back to it the scent of chocolate was very strong and right at the front. Delicious.

Definitely my favorite scotch right now.



After having lurked here for a little while, I thought it was time I began contributing. For my first review, I thought I would start with Macallan 18 Sherry Oak. 43%. I found a couple of 50mL minis for $8 each, which, when scaled, is cheaper than a full bottle. Anyway, onto the review:

Color: Amber.

Nose: Sweet and light sherry, with hints of vanilla and dark fruits.

Taste: Again, quite sweet with an oily mouthfeel. I picked up some oak as well. Along with apples, toffee, and vanilla.

Finish: A long, lingering finish. It was warm finish, not a hot finish, that some younger spirits have, this was very enjoyable. There was also some oak with a bit of pepper in there as well. 

All in all very enjoyable, the finish was certainly my favorite part
of the dram. The tingling sensation in my throat just kept on going. 

90/100



Macallan 18  

Finish: Long finish and enjoyable the whole way through.  Starts out spicy and mellows out nicely and sweetly.

Price: $180 (California) 

Rating: 92/100 

43% ABV  

An excellent dram, but way, way overpriced.  It's a great whisky, it smells great, tastes great, and finishes nicely, but it is not worth the price.  I like Macallan, but honestly, you can get 4 Macallan 12s for on Mac 18, and I would grab the 12s and run.  The cask strength is better in my opinion. Of course, if you're offered a dram, take it gladly.



Good evening Scotchit, Caterpillar here with review #70 for me. This is one I?ve been chomping at the bit to finally try and it was well worth the wait. After my 3 shitty blend reviews, I figured I should follow up with a good one and this was definitely the right call to make.

The Macallan 18 43% ABV

96/100



Hello again, I'm back with my 3rd review on Scotchit - this time it's the Macallan 18 Sherry ($18/pour).

Atmosphere - Had this at an Irish Bar during Dragon*Con.  It was a nice dark bar, with tons of people in costume, and everyone is there to have a great time.

Color - Golden burgundy

Nose - Deliciously sweet and very ripe red fruits, warm buttery cherry tarts, black pepper, sherry, red apples, sea breeze, and morning flowers.

Palate - Sweet peppery citrus fruits, baking spices, vanilla pudding, salty malted caramel apples, and young dark fruits.

Finish - Quite a long and sharp finish that stuck around longer than expected, but oh so good.

Overall - 94/100.  This was a fantastic scotch, and so far my favorite.  The taste made me reminiscent of fall festivals and cool weather, something I am longing for.  I was very surprised by how many unique and strong flavors stuck out and made themselves known.  All in all, it was a delicious dram that I very much look forward to meeting again.



The 18 year is miles better than the lower Macallan offerings.  If you get a chance try to find the mini tasters and buy one.  (sometimes they are even bundled with the 12 yr for free).  They sell the tasters all over and it is the best way to try this dram (6-7$ vs $20-25+ in a bar, Oregon Prices).  

However at $160 a bottle here in Oregon it is over $50 more than 18 year offerings from other great distilleries and thus WAY over priced.  Also i feel this 18 yr macallan needs more time in the glass to open up flavor wise than many other whiskies, so be patient with it.  :)



Thanks.

I can't say for certain, but based on the taste I'm definitely going with Sherry.



Merry Christmas, Scotchitors on the other side of the planet! And Merry Christmas Eve to everyone else!

My wife and I were in Seattle, WA for one of her job interviews a few months ago. The night we landed we walked from our hotel to Green Leaf for some Vietnamese food at 1am. 

They had a pretty decent whisky menu, and despite the piss-poor reviews of the Fine Oak 12, I decided to try the Macallan Fine Oak 17. As it turned out, they didn't have any Fine Oak 17, so the waitress informed me that they "upgraded" me to the Macallan 18 Sherry Cask for the same price.

Cool, no problem there. 

Macallan 18 Sherry Cask

Region: Speyside

ABV: 43%

Nose: Bright sherry. Red fruits. A bit of wintery spice.

Palate: Rich oak. Baking spices. Sherry. Sea salt sprinkled on chocolate. 

Finish: Long and mentholated. Spicy. Sweet. Slow burn.

90/100

Good stuff. Let's check the price... $200, you say? Eh. I've got no problem dropping that kind of money on a bottle, but I have a hard time spending that much on a bottle in a "normal" lineup. For $200 I want something a little different, a little kooky, and a bit more complex.

It was absolutely delicious and paired nicely with my pho.



I don't normally drink whisky with food, as I don't think they go well together in general. I reviewed it prior to starting our dinner.

That said, the salty spicy noodles and broth complemented the Macallan nicely.



