Reviews #78-80

Hello folks, thought I?d post up a review on this fine day, hope you all had a safe and pleasant 4th. Today I?ve got a 3 part Macallan which rounds me out to 80 reviews. 

With the advent of the great giant that has been Macallan rolling out  a new product line I figured that I should make my way through their old offerings as best as I can. I hadn?t previously dabbled much with Macallan as my perspective had always been that they were over-priced and/or hyped. Let?s see how that holds up.

Macallan 12 Sherry, Speyside, 43% ABV

Nose: Musty sweet oak. Stale white wine, oats, stale bath water. Creamy honeyed chocolate. Buttered wheat toast.

Palate: Bright spicy sherry. Tangy orange zest quickly moves on to round sweet marmalade. Dusty cloves and cinnamon dusted apple streudel.

Finish: Tangy strawberry sorbet. Touch of sea salt, plenty of musky juicy wine. Toasted cashews and a touch of unsmoked paprika.

86/100

This is great stuff but I do feel its slightly overpriced? gotta pay for that crown I guess. Thanks to /u/Trexid for this sample.




In my state the smallest individual bottles sold are 200mL, and I've seen 50mL bottles sold in packs of four of more (although I swear the store that first told me it was illegal sells a three-pack Jack Daniel's sampler...). About half the stores in my area carry the Glenmorangie collection four-pack, while almost all stores carry 10-12 packs of popular liquors like Absolut, Maker's, and Bacardi. I think it has everything to do with trying to stop homeless alcoholics who like to drink in public. Mini bottles require the least amount of capital to start drinking, and are the easiest to hide. I agree that handles are definitely more irresponsible than minis, but there is no way you're sneakily drinking from a handle while on a bus.

Edit: In case your dialect is different from mine, a handle is 1.75L bottle. Most are plastic and have a handle for carrying and pouring.



Awesome reviews! I need to get one of those Mac 18 mini's there is a store close by that packages them with the 12 but I've got other priorities.

That Mac CS is so good! :)



Can't believe I haven't reviewed a Macallan yet! Let's start with the staple 12 year old sherry wood bottling. The oh-so prestigious Macallan 18 up next!

Macallan 12

Color: Amber +1

ABV: 43%

Aroma Neat:

Heavy Sherry (Oloroso, some sulfur), Red Currants, Dried Strawberries, Gunpowder, Burning Rubber, Brandy, Caramelized Marzipan (slightly), Molasses/Muscovado Sugar, Vanilla Cake Batter, Musty Books, Tame Oak.

Big sherry delivery, that reminds me of a Whisky Broker Benrinnes 14 I reviewed a while ago.

Aroma Water:

Thick Caramel, Barley Bread, Golden Syrup/Honey, Vanilla-Infused Rum, Armagnac/Cognac, Gunpowder/Burnt Rubber, Earthy Sherry (mushrooms), Coriander, Orange Peel, Clove Oil, Fresh Churned Butter.

Sweeter and still heavily sherried, but more rich and sweet that overtly fruity now.

Taste Neat:

Sherry (light sulfur), Grapey Tannins,Gunpowder (very slightly), Dried Strawberries.

Is that it? Didn't catch too many notes neat.

Taste Water:

Dried Strawberries, Cooked Apples, Cinnamon, Coriander, Nutmeg (slightly),  Nutty, Black Plums, Smooth Barrel Char/Oak.

Heavily sherried and a tad dirty. Good stuff!

Finish:

Gunpowder (slightly), Grape-Soaked Malt (slightly bitter), Tobacco, Sweet Oak/Vanilla, Light Smoke/Char, Hot Copper.

Medium duration, with coppery/cigar smokiness lingering.

Conclusion:

Big sherry nose that evens out with water, but stays heavy.

Tasty palate with just enough fruit, mulling spice, and gunpowder.

Similarly satisfying finish.

Rating: 84/100

Really nice sherried whisky that is definitely in the same heavy, slightly dirty (in a good way!) family as Glendronach. Certainly more available than Glendronach (if maybe not quite on the same level).

Josh

blog



Not sure where the love affair for this started. I believe it began with the movie 25th hour, where Barry Pepper's character orders a Macallan 12 neat during a really awesome club scene. I was like damn, that is so cool. So I had gone through a few bottles of this prior quite long ago before I really got into spirits as a hobby. It was a "special occasion" whiskey. Now I don't even barely bat an eye lash at it if I see it offered. Oh how the mighty have fallen...

The Macallan 12 (86 proof)

Color: Tawny

Nose: Begins with soft and candied fruits, smashed grapes, and apple juice, then opens up to goose down pillow, chocolate malt balls, and sweet cream subtly under neath, some driftwood and trailmix rears its head  

Taste: Lychee, grape, and creamy butter at the front end, then nutmeg and cinammon mid palate followed by milk chocolate at the back-end; slightly velvety mouthfeel

Finish: medium length of butter, almond milk, and cocoa 

Overall: Classic stuff. Fruity and creamy with a hint of wood and baking spices. Great quality, but I feel it is holding back. (or I have become more experienced) Not as revered as it used to be but past pours will always be remembered. Sad to see it go. 

Rating: Excellent (86/100)

PS: I need a better camera.



Review #21 - Macallan 12 Sherry

Colour: Apple juice with a slight redness.

Nose: Wood, sherry, rasins, smokiness (not peat), fall spices.

Palate: Sherry, alcohol comes through strong, raw sugar, hearty fruits like brown pears and russet apples, old damp wood,  a string of cleaning product.

Finish: Slightly sour, notes of the palate remain but are dominated by sourness and alcohol burn.

Very nice, solid, sherry dominated whisky.  The wood is very present which is nice.

abv is 40% I believe.

85/100




How about dark golden unicorn tears with a dash of red delicious apples and a sparkling rose wine?

With nothing to criticize in the actual taste, I figured I could at least go after the colour.



This was my gateway drug. Discovered at a speakeasy in South Carolina while helping a friend move, it was first real foray into great scotch. Prior to this I had been content to drink Mcelland?s Highland or Clan McGregor as I was a broke bum in my early 20?s. It tasted like liquid heaven. I forgot how many glasses I ordered that night, but it had to have been at least 10. Complemented by live Jazz I was in ecstasy. Truly my standard everyday dram.

43% ABV

Paid:$54

Color:Burnt Amber

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn 

Nose: A rich chocolate sherry. Thick slices of dried fruit and ginger swirl with the chocolate to put my mind at ease.

Taste: A succulent vanilla complemented by cinnamon and wedding cake. Toffee and a light caramel coffee round out this lovely oily mouthfeel. 

Finish: A dry warm peppery smoke and spice lingers in the mouth. A true kiss on the tongue.

Overall: The only whisky drinking experience I have had similar to trying my first Macallan was the unmatched furious power of George T Stagg. My only regret is that I have been unable to try the cask strength version. I will always have a bottle on hand and have bunkered many in the fear that those awful NAS statements ever make it stateside.

Score: 93/100



I'm gonna assume that was a typo and you meant $10 million?

Even so, care to expand on why it was so bad? Planning to visit them soon and wondering if its not worth the effort?



This review is a combo of my thoughts from two separate occasions. There were no significant differences, so I will describe tonight's environment for simplicity. Last time I was concerned there was too much paint smell in the air. 

We are back from a thanksgiving meal with family, 6+ hours removed from the food. This year I am thankful for my lovely wife, freshly painted walls, and hardwood floors. There's a football game on TV which I care nothing about, my team having won the 4:30 PM game to take the division lead. In search of a digestif, I pour from a recently opened bottle...

Price: $59.99. I do not recall if it was on sale for $55 when I bought it or not

Nose: As I first poured, then stepped away and smelled from across the room: Maple syrup, overripe strawberries. Getting closer sherry. Yup, there it is. The nose really reminds me of drinking Remy Martin VSOP.

Mouthfeel: thin, creamer after holding it on the tongue for a while

Taste: Light red wine. More sherry, surprising lack of sweetness. As I get further down the glass, it seems to be growing sweeter with a hint of honey. A musty flavor too: musty grapes like the non alcoholic sangria we used to drink as teens. 

Finish: dry. almost but not quite vinegar. White pepper. Trailing aftertaste of overripe fruit. Medium long. 

I am ready not sure why I bought this. I knew what i was in for, I had this before in a bar.  What was I thinking? 

In reflecting on that question, I realize I was paying attention to the company's marketing. It's good stuff, honest! Maybe even the best you've had (they say). I say this gets a D - needs improvement

Score: 64/100

Would I buy it again? I hope not. But maybe some future version of me will again fall victim to the marketing hype. Note to future self: DON'T DO IT! 



Very surprised by this review. Not that I'm Macallan fanatic or anything, but I consider the 12 Sherry to be the "little black dress" of scotch. I know it's exceptionally well made and I constantly recommend it to people looking get into spirits. 

Out of interest--what do you gravitate towards? 



what do you gravitate towards? 
I'm working on finding that out :)  I love the Glenlivet French Oak 15 year, and I have Lagavulin 16 and Ardbeg 10 here that I like a lot too.  I have about 40-50 samples I am going to go through this winter, so if you come back in the spring you can see from all my reviews what I like.

I honestly was surprised by this review too.  I don't think I am all that picky, I just think Macallan 12 is really not my thing.  But I didn't expect to have it sit as badly with me as it did... that's another reason I tried it twice.



I tried this in a bar while on travel in San Francisco and enjoyed it. It was my first taste of a sherried scotch. I enjoyed it, but it's not something I think I would want to have often. I'd probably keep a bottle around for times I wanted to switch it up. I need to try it again and write a review, but from what I remember I'd probably give it about an 80/100. 

I preferred the 10 Fine Oak



This review either came from a competitor or from someone with a very particular and personal taste. The Macallan 12 is a very well executed scotch for its category. If you are into the more smokey, peaty whisky that's perfectly fine, but to slam this product because it doesn't fit your idea of perfect scotch just shows lack of experience or worse, ulterior motives. You might as well slam Makers Mark or Jameson because they don't taste like Kilchoman Peated.  You are right, you should have never bought it, especially at it's regular price, knowing that you don't care for the sweeter whiskeys. 

Personally I love it and would like to know who makes something comparable in taste and flavor, but priced more like your regular average daily drinker. 



lol, I'm definitely not in the industry, you can view my post history to confirm!  I'm sorry that my scoring was offensive to you, but as /u/texacer said in his guide:

Just because I score something at a 70/100 doesn?t mean that I?m right.  That is my personal opinion.  You may give it a 90/100 or a 50/100.  its a personal score.

I have been trading for many many samples since it's difficult (and expensive!) to buy a wide variety of scotch in my state.  I'll certainly update you if I find something that tastes similar but has a better price point.



Thanks to wvlurker and gooshwa for the samples!

Mac 12 Sherry, 43% ABV

Nose: Very sweet. Black forest cake and raspberry jam. Poached pear and cinnamon. Slight sulphur.

Taste: Thin and fleeting. Sultanas and oak spice. Sweet and malty with some citric tartness.

Finish: Maybe some cocoa? More dried fruits and white pepper. Medium and meh.

I am not a Macallan fan, but I tried to review this with an open mind. Decent dram but like the Fine Oak 12, very ordinary.

79/100




I had my first scotch and coke in the mid-90s, but started drinking single malts in the mid-noughties. I have only been taking it seriously for maybe 4-5 years. I never took notes, but after subscribing to this sub I started writing reviews.

Best. Whisky. Ever.



Might have to wait a few  years to put those two together. 

Where did you get your Tun from? DM? 



Ayedfy sent me his stupid "Solera Blend" as a mystery dram, the sneaky bugger. I didn't archive it for obvious reasons.

Edit: Whoops, wrong person



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with community review #2.  Macallan 12 sherry cask.  86proof.

89/100

I don't want to bog down this review but I have a quick story. I wasn't going to buy a bottle for this review because I am quite content with the Cask Strength Macallan but a funny thing happened.  My company xmas party had a bar where we had drink tickets.  My wife, being pregnant couldnt use her 2 so I of course yoinked them.  I didn't know the rules so I decided to just go for the good stuff.  I see that they had the Macallan 12 on the very top shelf and I say what the heck "Macallan Neat" and I get this pour, One drink ticket.  so I had 4 of these that night.  It reminded me how much I enjoyed it and I decided to buy another bottle anyways.  cheers.



Hello again everyone,

Back again today with some more of my adventure.

First thing I did today was go to a tour at Speyside Cooperage which was really interesting. You don't really get much for your ?3.50 (15 min video then a viewing gallery into the Cooperage) but it was pretty mesmerising to see the coopers at work. 

After that I just about had time for a tour at Glen Grant. 45 mins, ?5 and you get to taste the Major's Reserve and the 10yo. Since I was driving I took some away in a sample bottle and tried later. Guide seemed a little nervous and might have been new.

?

Glen Grant 40% (2016 packaging)

Colour: Gold

Body: Light

Nose: Fragrant, fruity and perfumed. Melon and banana, heady women's perfume, orange blossom, orange peel, lemon.

Taste: Soft. Sweet and perfumed, flowers, orange blossom, orange peel, fragrant oak, lemon pith, some chocolate into the finish.

Finish: Medium length. Chocolate and oak.

Notes: Nice nose, lackluster finish.

67/100

?

Next up was Macallan, which I was expecting big things from. Horst Leuning suggested it as his distillery to visit as a connoisseur. 1 hour, 30 mins, ?10 and 4 tasters (all pretty small but some rarer stuff too). Plus all four tasters I hadn't tried before. Very professional and friendly guide who knew a lot about just about everything.

?

Macallan 12 Sherry 40%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Lovely. Heavy and fat. Sherry, nuts, oily, malt, earthiness, raisin, dark chocolate.

Taste: Soft, Sherry, nutty, oily, oily malt, barley, raisin, honey, dark chocolate, good quality coffee.

Finish: Medium length. Good quality dark chocolate and great coffee.

Notes: Great stuff. Can't believe this was discontinued in most markets.

73/100

?

