I opened this for others first, sending out samples while I finished other bottles. It's been on my hit list for a while, but I must confess I didn't think very highly of what I smelled when I first opened the bottle. Trying to set aside both the anticipation and the disappointment and generate a decent review.

Price: $78.99 per 750ml here in PA

Nose: a plastic bucket full of grass clippings. Sea breeze - A florist's shop by the shore. A bit of leather and I am not sure if I am imagining the milk chocolate.

Mouthfeel: smooth, somewhat creamy

Taste: butter, chocolate, peat/earth and sherry. Oak. Glad to report there isn't any plastic here. 

Finish: short burn, aftertaste lingers for a while. Flavor of the aftertaste is very difficult to name. There's a plastic/floral/fruit combo, there's earth/peat/a hint maybe of smoke, there's dry wood (oak) and sherry. But all these live as a single flavor and feel like they should have a single name. I suppose we could name that flavor "Oban"

This one grew on me as we went. Definitely not a fan of the nose, but the taste got better and better each sip. There is some small mildly offputting thing in the aftertaste that kept me going back for another sip to get away from it. It's above average, but not much. B-/C+

Score: 79.8/100

Would I buy it again? Probably not. If it were cheaper, possibly, but not at this price. Highland Park, Lagavulin and Laphroaig, and a lot of others are cheaper or better. 



Aaaaaaand another comparative review. Oban 14 is a pretty standard offering, but it's older brother isn't so easy to come by. What do the extra four years show off in the Oban 18?

Oban 14 is the first single malt whisky I tried in my local scotch bar, and it was a great choice since I was still getting a handle on the basics at that point. Now that I've tried so many more whiskies, let's see if it still holds up!

Oban 14

Strength: 43%

Color: Orangey gold.

Nose: This has a little bit of everything. There's citrus fruit, floral notes, and salty air. 

Palate: Well rounded, orange zest, oak, and a hint of smoke. 

Finish: Warm, oaky, and pleasantly smokey. 

Summary: This is so well rounded and balanced. It reminds me a bit of Highland Park 12 in the sense that it shows off a little bit of everything. Fruit, oak, smoke, they're all there but none are overwhelming. 

Score: 85/100 

Scotch Review #23

Scotch Review #24

Whisky Review #31

Final Thoughts: I think these two are a wash. I love the way the 14 has a nice balance and it's strength is in its diversity. The 18 hones in on the oak and smoke, but keeps it in the realm of what I enjoy. It's probably about as smokey of a scotch as I am likely to enjoy. Taking value and availability into account, I think I'd stick with the 14 if I was getting a bottle. 

On a final note, I believe I'm due for a flair upgrade!



I'm leaving to Scotland tomorrow. Glasgow first for a few days, then Islay for 3 days, 2 nights. However, I didn't think it would be appropriate to leave without doing at least one more review. And since I'm at #28 now, why not make it a double to get some sweet, sweet tartan before I go? 

It just so happened that I had a double sample of Oban 14 and DE from /u/glinsvad still sitting around. I had no idea what to expect from this distillery - mainly I thought it would be somewhat islandy or coastal. 

Review #29: Oban 14
Highland, 43% ABV

Nose: sour apples, sweet malted barley, white grapes, mild oakiness

Very Glenfiddich. Sour and apples, sweet and sour. Not really my thing. Water tames the sourness, but it doesn't turn all that much better.

Taste: nice and rounded mouthfeel, oily, malty, sour apples, sweet vanilla, salty toffee

Less sour; quite smooth and full bodied. Malty and apple-y. Water completely ruins the mouthfeel, really don't recommend it.

Finish: long and warm, really sour and dry, toffee, pineapples, barley

Sourness is back and really dominates. The back of my throat is much maltier, while my tongue still burns with sourness.

Conclusion: Not very coastal, more a straight Glenfiddich copy with fruitiness and sour apples. It doesn't have the bitterness, so that's a few points in its favour. Can't say I'm a huge fan though, it's pretty average.

Score: 75/100

Overall, Oban wasn't really my thing. Thank you glinsvad for the samples, though, they definitely spared me a lot of money buying something I wouldn't enjoy. 

Anyway, I'm off to Scotland in under 16 hours. I'll be back with lots of reviews of both drams and distillery tours (I'm doing 5!), and lots of bottles and minis to review later. Sl?inte!



Congrats on Tartan upgrade! Also Nice reviews, I'm going to revisit Oban14 at some point but I think right now my brain is wired to enjoy big flavors so I might be too hard on it, if that makes any sense. 

Have a great time in Scotland, can't wait to hear about your trip!



Thanks to /u/Dyllix for the sample!  An oldie but a goodie.  I haven't had this since I started reviewing shit, so why not give it another go.  Aged for 14 years and bottled at 43% ABV.

?

Nose:  Lemons and vanilla.  Light sweet fruit.  Honey.  Floral.

Palate:  Medium light weight.  Delicate and fruity.  Very approachable, easy to drink, and smooth.  Honey and fruit.  Lemons and oranges.  Heather and fresh cut flowers.

Finish:  Medium short finish.  A bit of smoke comes out, but very light.  A bit of spice as well.  Mostly just continues the floral and honey profile.

Score: 85/100

?

This is just as good as I remember.  Yummy and easy to drink.  Nothing that is going to bowl anyone over.  Light on complexity and big on the enjoyment factor.  Nice warm weather whisky as well.  Perfect for this warm evening.

?

/u/review_bot 'Oban'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Oban:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



The sweetness really opens up around the shoulder.

That first glass out of the bottle though is less than impressive.



Oban 14

Little Bay of Caves

Highlands, 43%

*color: olive gold

*nose: marble cake, floral, malty, smoky, reminds me of Berentzen

*taste: dried apples, figs, spicy, delicate

Was my first single malt. Lots of memories with that. I like it like it.

87/100

So I'm doing a blind tasting competition where every day we try an unmarked numbered sample. I don't usually make tasting notes, but I found yesterday's whisky to be particularly remarkable. So I made it into a review:

Rating 86/100

I've always been curious about Oban and was quite taken aback by the herbal and salty character which really threw me off completely. I was really quite certain this was an Island whisky. It was a great dram and I enjoyed it a lot, especially the finish.



Oban is a Diageo single malt, from the ?West Highlands? (which is somehow worth distinguishing from ?Highland?) region. It represents that region in the original 6 classic malts put out by DIageo predecessor United Distillers, along with Dalwhinnie, Cragganmore, Glenkinchie, Talisker, and Lagavulin. Unfortunately, independent bottlings of Oban are practically nonexistent, so we?re left with the version Diageo thinks the masses will like most?so at least it?ll be smoooooth.

14 years old. 43% abv. No statement about chill-filtration or coloring, but hey, come on, it?s Diageo...

Nose - Salted caramels, dreamsicle, a charcoal/light smoke note, ginger, black pepper, and I think a bit of nutmeg too. I do rather enjoy the nose on this one, though it seems somewhat restrained.

Taste - That salted caramel/orange/light smoke combination again, which I?ve found really defines this whisky. I also get some of the mild spice notes from the nose as it develops. Nicely balanced. Medium-light, almost watery feel - this has definitely been filtered a bit.

Finish - The orange note amplifies, and it picks up a nice creamy vanilla note, along with some black pepper. The light smokiness continues here, and along with the pepper lingers the longest.

I think I like this more every time I re-visit it. When I was first getting in to Scotch, it was among the first I tried, and I didn?t really care for it (it wasn?t the smoke, Laphroaig 10 and Laga 16 were among the first single malts I had and I loved them). Either my tastes have changed or the balance has improved over the last 2.5 years, maybe both. It still doesn?t wow me, but I find it to be a rather pleasant dram these days, though I feel the currently available versions of Oban don?t really live up to the potential it has...it?s like there?s a really great malt in there that just needs to be coaxed out...but I do find myself reaching for Oban a fair amount when I have some around.

86/100



I feel like simply doing a craft presentation and upping the ABV to 46 and NCF might bump it up a few points and help it realize much of that potential.

Yeah, pretty much.



it's a nice easy sipper when you don't want to think too much about it.

Well, sure, but so too are drams like Glenmorangie 10 and Cragganmore 12 which come in at a substantially lower price point. My main problem with Oban is the price: for >$65, there is nothing of value to it, which is interesting given that Diageo have been pretty good about holding back the price hikes throughout this boom. 

Simple vanilla/honey sippers are easy to come by and can be had at much less cost. 



No, it doesn't take it a step further than Macallan. No one does. Balvenie's worse than Oban too IMO, I remember getting the 15 yr Single Barrel for $65, now it's like $110.

It can be overpriced, especially the 18 these days. Had FineDrams not had it for ?38 I wouldn't have ordered a bottle.



My personal opinion is that Macallan is living off a reputation established 15+ years ago (before they came out with that Fine Oak range) that they certainly don't deserve anymore based on their current offerings.

Balvenie and Macallan both have a couple of decently priced expressions, such as their 12 year olds, and in the case of Balvenie the 14 yr CC (though in some areas the 14 yr is way out of whack, but I think that's more the retailer or distributor).

It's a little hard to compare the pricing of those two to Oban, just because Oban has so many fewer offerings than Balvenie or Macallan, but anything those two come out with anymore is just stupid (Mac Rare Cask, their continued price hikes on the 18, the previously mentioned Balvenie SB's let alone the 1509, etc). I see Oban 14 usually for $70-$80 these days, when in my mind it's a $50-$60 whisky, so I do agree with you that they're getting overpriced, but nothing quite as egregious as what Mac and Balvenie have been up to lately.



Got a bottle of this as a present from my girlfriend's father. I definitely agree with you - nothing particularly spectacular and incredible, but I find that to be it's charm.

I shared some with my younger brother as one of his first whiskeys, he found it to be his favorite among my little collection.



nothing particularly spectacular and incredible, but I find that to be it's charm.

It's just good, no questions asked whisky.



so i made a post about a company outing the other day: http://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/2petrz/companyorganized_scotch_tasting_oh_boy/

turned out better than i thought it would. so we went to the restaurant, and my boss said if i'm not happy with the guy's selections i can change things up. so i go to chat with the guy who picked the flight and who i talked to on the phone last night (see previous post for details). 

his plan was to start with bowmore 12, then go to Johnnie Gold, and finish with cragganmore 12. i tell him that's pretty much the opposite of whta he should do. he argues saying no you start with bold tastes. i give a wine tasting example, he still doesn't get it, i tell him to stop. i'm the customer and i'm going to tell him how the tasting is going to go. 

i change things up after he argues about pricing and set up a flight of Cragganmore 12, Talisker 10 followed by Johnnie Walker Green label (given those 2 are composite parts of Green, figured it would be a really cool experience). 

anyway, service was terrible, dinner took forever, so by the end we decided to cancel the scotch tasting at the restaurant altogether and i was given the company card to build a flight for everyone at the hotel bar instead. 

i chose a few drams and had some fun with it, telling the group about each one. i asked for input on each too and took notes. so, here they are!

Oban 14 - 43% ABV

Appearance:   gold-orange

Nose:  honey, malt, almonds, cream

Taste:  lots of sweet honey, malt, floral. 

Finish:  short. sweet. not great. 

Rating: 81  

sooo i need a tartan up for my 50th! also before you all comment on it, yes i had a woodford bourbon too... i'll be posting my first 10 bourbon reviews soon. 

hope you all enjoyed this mini-saga!

@review_bot scotch



/u/muaddib99's  reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Bold flavours first???? BOLD FLAVOURS FIRST!

Okay, that is by far the shittiest tasting I've ever heard of. That bartender deserves no money, no help, and I generally hope that he has to face a rough time in the future because he's poor at his job that eventually makes him realize that he's wrong.

Seriously, on what planet does "Bold Flavours First" make sense?



i know he's a  tool. 

he added an auto-gratuity, probably because he knew we were dissatisfied and wouldn't have given him anything. it was honestly one of the worst restaurant experiences of my life.



trust me, i wanted to. i've seen your reviews and called them to find out more too... they even had their monthly tasting night yesterday. 

told the boss from the start that we should go there.. she didn't want to cab everyone. :(

sounds like a lot of people are going to bed early tonight (last night endd at 2:30) so i might cab out there and go for round 2!



haha so true. already was the case actually. 

the marketing guy who was there with us said he wants to do a scotch tasting with his team next year sometime and asked if i would set up the menu and host it. fuck yes.



God that is the kind of boss I want to have/become.

also what an enormous glass of Oban! 



C&A Steak company. 

never go there. 



Hi everyone,

I've got another big Diageo classic today: Oban. 

Because Diageo like to keep Oban whiskies locked up in their Johnnie Walker, they don't release much of it apart from the 14yo. Shame, because I bet it's epic at cask strength.

Wish their was an annual 12yo cask strength of this, Dalwhinnie, Cragganmore and Talisker. Rather than just Lagavulin.

?

Like Dalwhinnie and the other classic malts, Oban uses worm tub condensers to give it more of an oily and meaty character.

?

Oban 14 43%

Colour: Diageo GoldTM

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Intense fruit- Apple, pear, some lemon, oak with a little smoke and soot in the background. Fresh pipe tobacco and leather, spice with a little salt and pepper, a little artificial toffee and caramel (Maybe the colouring talking?)

Taste: Rich fruit- Apple and lemon. Woody development with lots of oak and spice. More than a touch of earthy bitter soot but surprise pockets of fruit and citrus. Good balance.

Finish: Medium length. Spicy oak and soot fades with faint fruitiness.

Smokier than I remembered. Good balance and complexity.

73/100

?

First time I tried this I thought it deserved the same mark as Dalwhinnie 15 but now I think it's up there with the less good batches of Lagavulin 16.

?

Thanks for reading!

Review #306



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/oban

Network Average: 74.3

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent

?

Full Disclosure Disclaimer: I currently work as a Brand Ambassador for Penderyn Distillery. The views expressed here are purely my own and do not reflect the views of Penderyn Distillery or The Welsh Whisky Company. I try to maintain as much objectivity as I can but feel free to take my reviews with as big a pinch of salt as you like. Furthermore, I have never accepted free samples from anyone in the whisky industry, but have bought bottles or samples with my money, bringing a different set of biases. Also, my rating scale is NOT based on a Parker type wine scoring scale or a school/college/university % or A-F grade score. I apologise for any seemly low or 'bad' scores given with my system and am sorry I can't say only nice things. Please keep in mind that I am ethically compromised and am unable to produce 100% unbiased reviews.



Thanks for the review. Although the Dalwhinnie 15 gets love in various quarters, the Oban 14 seems to get almost universally low scores.  Never understood why, as I always thought it was a touch better than the Dalwhinnie 15 too.  Normalized for your scoring range, this is a good mark for the Oban 14 here.

Agree both are great choices in this lighter flavour cluster.



Interestingly, the Oban 14 is my 4th bottle-at-home, following the Dawhinnie 15.  I have no notes to harken back too -- I'm just getting my feet (and tongue) wet -- but I'd say the 2-3 points I'd take off the Oban for a much sharper (another reviewer said they "wince") initial flavor is countered by a point or two of extra depth in flavor "development" throughout the taste (while the the Dalwhinnie stays somewhat milquetoast the entire savor).

Cheers! 



So here's the scene: I've come back from work, on a Friday, after having security called on me 4 times at an upscale liquor store. That's a story for another day.

I had Bioshock: Infinite ready to go, my wife was all set to relax, and was excited for a great weekend.

And that's about the time when the power went out. And what's there to do when the power's out? I think it's time to review!

Oban 14. So... how do I describe how I felt about this Scotch before joining /r/Scotch... well, I'm surprised it's as popular as it is. When I last had it, I wasn't too impressed. I blamed that on a bad bottle, and perhaps not having a lot of experience. So here's to trying it again.

Region: Highland

Price: $109.95 (CAD)

Abv: 43.01%

Colour: Dead Grass

Nose: Perfume, corn syrup, cake mix, lots of lemon pudding, light smoke, bay leaves, treacle, quince, butterscotch, mint toothpaste

There's a lot of sweetness coming off this one, and perfume. And grass. Perhaps reviewing by candlelight was a bad idea. I may be smelling some aftershave that I poured in the dark.

Taste: Lemon pepper, cilantro, cabbage, rock candy, banana, Cointreau, basil

Okay, now I have to check I didn't mix Grand Marnier and Lemoncello into my glass.... Nope, it's Oban.

There's more vegetal now, however the lemon is really creeping up. I won't say it's not complex, I'm just having trouble finding something other than lemon.

Finish: Parsley, lemon rind, Szechwan pepper, dry cider, seaweed, dry, orange juice

That lemon, sticking around like that guy at the end of a party who hasn't gotten the hint. There's a little bit of heat and sweetness there, but it's too little too late.

Conclusion: Maybe it wasn't the bottle after all those years ago. This is fairly one note, and quite sweet. I want to like this, due to peer pressure, however it's just not my thing. If the above sounds like something you'd enjoy, dive right in. More for you (as I'll be sticking to Lagavulin).

72/100



It's my favorite overall - but I strongly favor delicate flavours over peat bombs.

I think you need to tell the story about the security guards.



I actually had to check what I've reviewed from Highland to answer your question; I've reviewed two other Highlands:

Brora 18 year 1999 June Douglas Laing Old Malt Cask - 84/100 - Link to review

Dalmore 10 year Old Malt Cask Douglas Laing - 74/100 - Link to review

From what I remember, Brora had great, unique elements, however they didn't tie themselves together. Dalmore was very sweet and had a constant citrus throughout. Nothing special about it.

Granted, both of those are IB. I do like Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban and Glenmorangie Original. Nectar D'or was nice, though kinda weak and the citrus monster kept creeping in. I tried Old Pulteney 12 and wasn't that big of a fan.
