Old Pulteney 21 
(Courtesy of /u/Gaxkang, 1 oz from a 2 oz bottle that?s been sitting in the closet for way too long, neat in a stemmed glencairn glass)

Nose: Fresh maritime notes, like waking up on a seaside cabin. Stewed pears/apples, lemon, sherry(?). A hint of smoke. Gentle yet fresh and lively at the same time. 

Palate: Mouthfeel is a little thin for 46% but wow. Very intricate! I haven?t had many lowlands and perhaps that?s why i?m struggling to come up with descriptors but I love the layering. Some fresh seaweed (a local delicacy here, slathered in some local vinegar), a nice dose of salt and sweetness that reminds me of fruits + plum powder (a Chinese/Taiwanese favorite). And then a roasted nutty backend.

Finish: Drying white wine like finish. Smooth, a bit of wet (sea soaked) wood balanced with honey and orange and a long gentle spice.

This doesn?t feel as old as it states but this feels like a very very solid dram. A testament of balance and blending perhaps? I like it alot, especially the maritime notes and how it?s like waking up next to shore (and yet saltiness is kept at bay.) With the price though (100+), it kinda tips the scales off a bit. Haven?t had any other Old Pulteneys, but I would rate this one:

91/100 



It's tartan time!

Great review, by the way.



Old Pulteney
46% ABV
130 USD

Nose: Green apple(extremely prominent shortly after opening the bottle), cinnamon, brine, lemon curd, toast, fresh bread

Taste: Buttered toast, apple butter, slight salt, oak, caramel, spice

Finish: Lots of spice, bready

Score: 86 88

EDIT: Raised the score from 86 to 88 after letting the bottle get some air.



Solid dram but I wouldn't pay for it again. There are plenty of better bottles for the price.

That's my sentiment for every Old Pulteney I've tried. Very good. Glad I bought a bottle but I probably won't buy another one anytime soon.



Yep, I've had the 12 and the 21, don't regret either purchase but I won't buy them again or try the 17 for a good while.

I used to recommend the 12 a lot as a beginner bottle but the price has been slowly creeping up around here and it's no longer the amazing value it used to be when it was ~$30/bottle.



Yep, I've had the 12 and the 21, don't regret either purchase but I won't buy them again or try the 17 for a good while.

I like the 12 and still keep it in my liquor cabinet.  The 17yo is good, but not at the price.  I wish the 12 came non-chill filtered, and a higher ABV.  I'd pay a little more for that.



Just for context, what do the Pulteneys cost you?

And what are some similar bottles that you like better at those prices?



$130 for the 21
$100 for the 17
$36.50 for the 12(still a bargain but not the incredible deal it used to be, or maybe I'm just salty that I can't get it for under $30 anymore)

I don't know of any direct substitutes that are better and cheaper, they're just not high up on my list of $100+ bottles to buy.



It's like snorting lines in a bakery. 

o.O



Love the 21 but I still think the 17 is better personally. 

Great review.  



46% ABV 

Nose: Brine, citrus (orange peel), underlying sweet malt, marzipan, a bit of oak in the background

Palate: initially honey, sweet tea (yeah, really), a little vanilla, candied orange peal, a little brine (less than nose), malted milk and a touch of oak...drinks a bit above 46% abv (which is nice)

Finish: warming and slightly numbing, feels higher than 46% ABV, brine, slight bitterness, toffee/vanilla, malt, citrus (citron...more bitter than palate, but still nice), oak is much more noticeable here throughout the finish, medium long (longer than most whiskies at this ABV). There's a lovely drying note that fades out gently at the end.

Score: 90/100

This is just delicious. It's rich, reasonably complex (as it should be given the age), and has a lovely play between brine, citrus, a little toffee/vanilla, and a good amount of oak that runs all the way through and is most pronounced on the finish. It's quite good, and I would love to have a bottle around all the time. The balance is just awesome.



Jim Murray's whisky of the year 2011 is an Old Pulteney 21 year old.  I was originally going to do this as a New Year's review, but one thing lead to another and I'm doing it now.  Old Pulteney is a great distillery so I'm happy to review this one for you.

Nose: A dry oaky quality filled with raisin, apple chips, butterscotch, buttercream, mild sea breeze and saltwater taffy.  Apple pie, some woody cinnamon bark, dry sherry, sage, and a carefully balanced wood spice.  There is an age note about this, but it is not overpowering.

Taste: A honeyed arrival that builds with a balanced citrus and Fino/Olorosso sherry quality.  It doesn't leak through the dram like in a Glendronach or other sherry monster.  Careful fruitcake, with navel oranges, vanilla, and light strawberry.  A peppery/clove wood spice comes in, balanced with a bit of cinnamon.

Finish: The finish is filled with honeyed spicies dancing around that land on fruity cake notes.  Carrot cake and sour apple.  Finishes dry and casky with a hint of salt, quite a full and ashy wood spice to this.  Although the tannins are quite prevalent, this maintains its distance from being screamingly woody.

With water: Water does work to quell the spiciness and encourage the sherry notes to come through.  Some characteristic 'Old Pulteney-ness' shows its head as well, a bit of a plasticy-spice tone.  This dram does its best work with a couple heaping spoonfuls, dropping it below 40% ABV.

Final notes: A very dry sherry-influenced dram that isn't leaking Olorosso (as many do).  Bourbon cask has managed to balance this out, and what seems like a good portion of Fino sherry has left this dram feeling quite dry.  The dry sherry works quite well with Old Pulteney.  Start to finish this is a nice dram, although the spicy tannins on the tail hide some notes that I'd like to see.  I've found that water does this dram incredibly well, and more properly integrates the tannins into the overall experience.  Don't be shy, it does well under 40%.  Very nice, but wouldn't have been my whisky of the year 2012 (sorry Old Pulteney).

Final score: 90/100



I'm down to half of the bottle and I still can't pick out some of the flavors. I might need to let it breath for a bit longer. 

Very nice, but wouldn't have been my whisky of the year 2012 (sorry Old Pulteney).
agreed. 

I prefer the A'bundah or Laga 12 over this. Still a great Scotch though.



Totally agree.  

17 is awesome 



I have only tried the 12 (good) and 17 (AMAZING!)

Still deciding on whether to get the 17 or 21 because there's a $70 difference.



Thanks to /u/scotchchick for the samples.  Old Pulteney gains distinction as the northern most mainland distillery on Scotland, and is often described as having a heavy maritime character, while having a lighter peat flavor than the Islays, Taliskers, and Ledaigs of the world.  Both the 17 and the 21 are being discontinued, though to my knowledge, they've yet to state what they are being replaced with.  Regardless, if you like them, best to stock up now.  The 17 is aged in 90% refill bourbon casks and 10% first fill oloroso sherry.  The 21 is aged in ex bourbon and ex fino casks, but I can't seem to find the percentage.  The 21 gained a lot of hype after being named the best whisky in the world by Jim Murray in 2012 (but who cares).  Anyways, let's have a taste.

Old Pulteney 17, 46% ABV, no chill filtration, no color added

Good degree of complexity here.  I was picking up new flavors with every sip.  The brine and fruit notes worked well together.  Lovely nose.  Pretty nice finish.

87/100

?

Old Pulteney 21, 46% ABV, no chill filtration, no color added

Probably not quite as complex as the 17, but probably has a better overall balance.  The extra sherry influence really adds something nice here.  The age does what you would expect, toning down the peat/brine notes and adding more oak and wood notes.  A very nice whisky, but I could have stood to get a little more brine from it.

89/100

Scotch Reviews #26-27

Old Pulteney Reviews #1-2

Whisky Network Reviews #56-57



Hello again Malt Meisters! This is my 7th review and it will be on the Old Pulteney 21yo. Unchill-filtered. 46%. I got this about 2 weeks ago for about $120. I bought this for my 22nd bday which is coming up in a few months. Finishing a 21yo whisky before I am done being 21 seemed like a good idea to me since I didn't do anything for myself on my 21st bday. So... here it goes.

Color: Amber

Nosing: a bit of vanilla, spice, salt, apples and other fruits, chocolatey

Tasting: spice, sweet, coffee, nutty, a bit fruity

Finish: lingering spice and alternating notes of vanilla and sweet fruits

Taste: 72/75

Value: 10/15

Uniqueness: 5/5

Would I Buy Again: 3/5

Score: 90/100

Conclusion: A really good whisky. This is the oldest whisky I've ever had and I can say that I'm not disappointed. This whisky has so much flavor in it that I would not mind spending most of my day trying to pick out the different flavors. I'd give this a near to perfect score if it weren't for its dry finish and price. 



Hey schotchit. Been a while. I've been busy. HDD crashed. Got a promotion. Fell in love. Went to the beach. Pissed myself (in the bathroom, luckily). Saw a mailbox blow up. Just finished watching "Let the Right One In" - a movie i've been meaning to watch, and thought "You know what? I bet there's a whole bunch of internet strangers who REALLY want to know what I think about some whisky." And so, I'm back. For a moment or two.

Old Pulteney 21, 46%, $70
Nose: honey, mint, liccorice
Taste: sweet saltwater taffy, banana
Finish: salty peppers, the beach
Rating: 87/100
Final Thoughts: The 12 is a solid dram and realyl just doesn't compare to this one. A LLS was selling this at WAY below retail so I snatched it up without a second thought. Definite buy.  




Yeh. I went to the counter and made them double check. It was $70 in their system. I even gave them a final out by going "Seriously. This is 100$ across the country. Are you sure you want to sell it to me at that price?"

I'm just too nice a fella.



Jeez. That's awesome. Don't ask me how I got there but the other day, I saw a very old thread where you mentioned that you somehow found Balvenie SB 25 year once at some crazy price. 

Can we please be best friends?



Yeh. I think I paid around $250 with tax. Some LLS in Paducah of all places.

And we can absolutely be friends. Just need you to pay your monthly friendships dues. I accept cash, whisky, and kudos (the accolades, not the granola bar).



tvraisedme's previous reviews:

Reviews 22-24, part three of the "I can't count series"

Please report any issues to /u/FlockOnFire



First, though, I need to make sure she knows my name.

Isn't that always the difficult part though? Luckily for me, I think the one for me knows my name. 

Btw, great reviews of the 3 here. Really makes me want to give the Lagavulin 12 a try. 



REVIEW #143: Old Pulteney 21 year - 46% abv

Nose:  dried lemon zest, old oak, nutmeg, leather, floor wax, dried flowers, toffee, salt, honey, cocoa, sour pineapple

Taste: thicker, sweeter, darker, raisins, dried apricot, bitter limoncello again, bitter oak tannins, nutty, peanut brittle, toffee, lemon candy, ginger bite, ginger beer, nilla wafer, malty cocoa

Finish: drying, ginger bite, subtle peppery oak, malt, bittersweet, vegetal / asparagus, long, builds with each sip.  Sour.

Score: 88/100 

Buy a full bottle? No

Closing Thoughts: It?s the best of the range, 12/17/21. Still astringent, still limoncello bitterness, still floor wax. The spirit?s signature is obvious throughout the lineup, it just gets better, thicker, sweeter and deeper with age.  That being said, it seems odd that so little changes with so many years.  The gap between age statements doesn?t follow the normal leaps and bounds you find in other distilleries.



Review #146

Hello everyone! I had a relaxing day of shopping with the wife, time to sit down and have a relaxing dram before what I assume will be a rather unrelaxing work week. I?m a big fan of the OP-12 so I?m very happy to finally be able to sit down with a glass of the readily available and highly praised 21 year iteration.

Old Pulteney 21, 46% abv, Highland

Nose: Briny green apple. Heavily oaked vanilla bean, Rolled oats with raisins, craisins. There?s sherry here, it?s pretty shy though. 

Palate: Excellent clean oak, spicy tobacco, quite a bit of tropical fruit ?kiwi, pineapple, pomegranate. Sea spray, minty dry wine influence bouncing around.

Finish: Tannic, dry, really woody. Some lemon zest, acidic ash, some sherry still there but takes quite a bit of time to really bring it out. Saltiness picks back up, light baked crackers.

90/100 

Yummy stuff, not really worth the asking price (Although I do think it?s a very reasonable price compared to drams of similar age).
