One of a few samples I picked up at the Good Spirits Co in Glasgow. I'm working through these as I compile some more verticals for you guys. My backlog is already huge, need to get through some of it.

First Old Pulteney review, let's get cracking.

Review #34: Old Pulteney 12
Highland, 40%, 50ml sample

Nose: brown sugar, caramel apples, malted barley, vanilla, salty, mildly bitter

Overall, sweeter than I expected. Turns saltier over time, but the dark sweetness is always there, lurking in the background.

Taste: light-medium mouthfeel, salt and pepper, sweet green apples, toffee, malted barley, bitter oak

A more feisty dram than the nose leads you to believe. Hot pepper and salt to begin with, turning to sweetness like caramelized green apples. Finally turns towards bitter woody notes towards the finish. 

Finish: medium-long, back of the throat heat, malt, mild apples, big bitterness

Honestly, I've said it before, but bitterness is not my thing at all. This is really bitter. Some sweet malt lingers, but the big event here is the hot and bitter burn in the back of your throat. It's honestly not very pleasant to me.

Conclusion: The nose is one of the nicer Speyside Highland noses I've tried, with balanced malt and salt. Even the palate is quite nice, but a bit light on the mouthfeel, probably due to the chill filtration and 40%. However, the finish is a big slap in the face of bitterness. I honestly can't stand it. So, yeah, not giving this many points. Sorry, OP fans.

Score: 70/100
Good nose, awful finish.



The nose is one of the nicer Speyside Highland noses I've tried.

I just got a sample of this today, looking forward to comparing notes on it. I hadn't imagined those big bitter notes in my expectations, now I'm anxious to give this one a go. Good review!

I've heard the older expressions, namely the OP21 are divine though! Don't give up on OP without trying the older ones perhaps.



Old Pulteney 12, 40% ABV

Nose: Lots of citrus and vanilla. Flint, minerals and rock salt. Sweet barley and lychees in syrup. Charred oak and white pepper.

Taste: Light and thin. Crisp maltiness. Sweet apples, candied ginger and grapefruit. Lemon tart. Anise and edamame beans. Peppery and oaky.

Finish: Herbal, spicy and slightly earthy. Wood smoke and dry oak. Medium and quite dry.

A very clean and fresh dram; it has a nice balance between sweet, salty, spicy and acidic. A lot of oak in this one... not necessarily a bad thing. 

Low ABV pretty much neutered this potentially great whisky, however, it's still quite good for a 40-percenter. The 17 is a lot better (and 46%) but nearly double the price.

81/100



Highland whisky aged 12 years.  Bottled at 40% ABV.

Nose: Lemon, vanilla, apples.  Rather light.

Palate: Thin and light.  Very simple.  A bit of lemon and honey.  

Finish: Medium short.  Oak and woodiness.  An off note as well, plastic or rubber?

Score: 71/100

Not very good, in my opinion.  Reminds me of Dewar's white label.  Better than Dewar's, but not by a lot.  Though I admit I do like the nose.



Mystery Sample picked and poured by my wife. Sample provided with reveal on the sample bottle by /u/j4ni. Hope you have a good time on the islands!
?   

Color :   

Nose : White pear, slight oak funk, faint smoke, honey & vanilla.       

Taste : Smoke, honey, chardonnay, mango, pineapple, vanilla, barley, artichoke, malt, cereal, chocolate liqueur, bitter oak, burnt tobacco & acetone.          

Finish : The finish spreads very thin but it lasts. Interaction is very minimal but it is there.       

?  

Guess : 85-90 proof, 10-12 years, Highland Park 12?             

Reveal : Old Pulteney 12 Year 80 Proof    

Conclusion : 2/5   



Old Pulteney 12

Highlands, 40%

color: amber

nose: tropical fruits, grass, apples, hint of lemon balm

taste: malted milk, vanilla ice cream, orange cake, muskmelon, peanuts, wood, hints of sherry

finish: short, weak

I don't like the dominant tropical fruit nose in the beginning because it seems to me very artificial, chemical an reminds me of the smell of a chemical company nearby. Besides that a good malt. Tastewise similar to the Glenmorangie 10.

82/100



This past Monday night one of our local whisky bloggers (Gal from whiskyisrael.co.il) put on an Old Pulteney tasting. Aside from the 12, 17 and 21 year old expressions which are the ones sold here, he also brought in a bottle of the 1989 LE and the 35yo. The importer just started selling the 17 and 21 year olds a few months ago and has really priced them fairly, which is very unusual (sadly), so one of their reps was in attendance, and brought along some Hankey Bannister 21yo which I reviewed earlier this week.

These whiskies are all matured in a mix of ex-bourbon (the vast majority in all expressions) and sherry casks (the 21yo specifically Oloroso, the 17 in a mixture of mainly Oloroso and few PX casks if I'm not mistaken, not sure about the 35). The 1989 Limited edition was matured in casks that previously held a heavily peated whisky.

I reviewed the 17yo so it won't be reviewed here. 

Old Pulteney 12

Aged 12 years, 40%ABV

Nose: Dry fruit. Honey. Light salt. Balsa wood. Pears in custard. Bread pudding. Floral. 

Palate: Sticky wood. Woodspice. Honey. Salty toffee. Nuts. 

Finish: Medium. Salt. Woodspice. Stewed fruit.

Old Pulteney 21

Aged 21 years, 46%ABV, NCF

Nose: Shortcake. Strawberries. Apricot jam. Honey. Berry chocolate. Rich wood oils. Pears in wine sauce. Dried orange peel. 

Palate: Woody vanilla. Toffee. Peaches. Light woodspice. Lemon pie. 

Finish: Long. Bitter wood. Woodspice. Rich dark fruits.  




Pulteney is a coastal distillery, and one of the most northerly in Scotland - the most northerly on the mainland until 2012 when Wolfburn Distillery (awesome name, btw) was built, per malt madness. Owned by the same parent company as AnCnoc, Balmenach, Balblair, and Speyburn. The 21 yo was Jim Murray's whisky of the year in 2012, and if I do say so myself, was quite a nice whisky...maybe not whisky of the year worthy though. Anyway, the label on this one says "robust, with a delicate hint of sea air". As for the characteristics I pick up:

Nose - Light, airy, floral, with a coastal salinity (there's that sea air). Very fresh, almost "bright" aroma. Also picking up caramel, lemon, vanilla, raw ginger, almonds, and orange peel. Not a lot by way of oak or spiciness when first opened, getting some clove a few days later. 

Taste - Enters with honey and vanilla, picking up lemon, orange, a bit of brown sugar, and some clove on the development. Very fresh tasting, fairly light feel to it. Pleasant flavors, but tastes a bit too watered down...should be at 46% instead of 43%. 

Finish - Lemonade, brown sugar, clove, ginger, with a lingering citrus note.

I enjoy this quite a bit, and this is just about the perfect summer single malt. While I enjoy what's there, I just can't help but wish the flavors were just a bit bigger - however, this stuff can be had for $40 or less, at which point I would say give it a shot. If all you've had is Glenfiddich or Glenlivet, this would be a decent next option, although it won't expose you to new flavors quite as much as, say HP12 or Glenfarclas 12, let alone one of the Islay monsters.

83/100



At the in laws, reviewed Jack Daniels and then wanted to do something else, but had nothing but Drambuie... Then my dad in law said I could have some OP12 from a mini I grabbed him in Scotland and I hadn't had it before. Let's see.

Appearance: light gold. Looks uncoloured. 

Nose: Salty sea air, honey, Briney, malt, floral, more honey, some oak, citrus, apple, pear. 

Palate: malty, Briney sea water, spicy, cinnamon, nutmeg, cloves. Less fruity and floral than the nose, but there's a bit. 

Finish: moderate and salty. 

Score: 82

Quite nice. I love island drams and this reminds me of one. Might grab a bottle if it ever comes to LCBO at a decent price.



Hello ladies and gents,

Another review already! Well, inspired by Ralfy's Old Pulteney review I decided to give some Old Pulteney's another try, and what better time than the present. Got the samples lying around anyway. 

Let's try the 12 again first.

Old Pulteney 12 40%

Colour: Light Gold

Body: Light

Nose: Light and fresh. Light malt and barley, a little floral. Flour, white bread, a little vanilla, sour lemon.

Taste: Light and malty. A bit of of flat arrival, a little fruity with mango, floral, light but prickling oak, some salt. Sour going into the finish.

Finish: Medium length. Sour wood with a green note.

68/100

I remember really liking this as a beginner. An easy going malt and good value for money, especially when it's on deal. Falls apart a bit if you add any water though.

Region: Highland

Abv: 40%

Price: N/A

Colour: Champagne

Nose:  Salt air, Mr. Clean lemon, sweet floral, basil, Saki, thyme, eucalyptus

Okay, there is a harsh artificial lemon at first that just erupts from this dram. It eventually relaxes into a salty, floral, vegetal smell, which is nice, though that ugly fake lemon smell sticks around like a mouse covered in Old Dutch.

Taste: Lemon, thyme, celery root, potato, banana, coffee, pepper

Fascinating taste on this one. It's mostly lemon, though there's more of that vegetal/earthy mix and some sweetness. Somewhat dry.

Finish: Sour cream, vitamin C caplets, mushrooms, rapini,  cocoa, cilantro.

Can I take back all my jokes about bitterness on Glenfiddich 12? Because this finish is roughly bitter. It's really killing this for me. It calms after a bit, though it's always there. At least it's short.

Conclusion: Well... this isn't really for me. It's bitter, it's dry, and it needs a bit more sweetness on the finish. The bitterness is an earthy, vegetal bitterness, which is somewhat rough. The flavour is nice, and I may have to revisit this in the future. I wouldn't turn it down, though I don't think I'll be searching out a bottle of this in the future.

72/100
