I received this in a swap with /u/Lasidar a while ago but it took me a while to get around to trying it. This is Old Pulteney 17 year old at 46% for my fifth whisky review and third scotch review on reddit.

?

N: It?s a soft, warm and inviting nose. There?s vanilla, pie crusts, beeswax and oatmeal. There?s a minerally quality with wet rocks and slight salt as well. It?s nice and well put together but doesn?t completely wow me. After a while I get a little lemon peel and grassiness as well.

?

P: There is a seamless transition from the nose. Vanilla, pastries and baked goods, nuts (almonds/walnuts), and brine. It?s waxy with a good mouthfeel and there?s a touch of bitterness like the peel of a citrus fruit. I like the taste a lot, better than the nose for me.

?

F: Long. Vanilla and salt lead the way with a little lemon zest.

?

Water: A few drops of water brings out more citrus on the nose and palate.

?

Overall: This is very well done. It?s easy to drink with enough complexity to keep me interested.  It would need a little something extra like a higher abv to make it a great dram but I?d be happy drinking this anytime. It is one that offers something for novices and experienced drinkers alike and if I found it at a good price I?d think about getting a bottle. I am getting an Old Pulteney 18 yr single cask shortly and having this has made me look forward to the potential of that one for sure.

?

Score: 84

?



ebrietas fumosus

what's it mean?



The downside of only reviewing a sample I guess.

Sure.  But the upsides to samples are awesome!  



Info: Old Pulteney is for some reason not sold in my area, I picked up samples of the 12 and 17 year from u/indridcoid if memory serves me the 12 year was a solid dram and I have not had the 17 year old before now.

17 Year old

Whiskey Network Review #38  r/Scotch Review #21

Appearance: Deep Gold

Nose: Apricot, pineapple, apple, pear, vanilla, honey, cinnamon, floral

Taste: Bine, green apple, pineapple, apricot, honey, ginger syrup, lime

Finish: Juicy Fruit gum and honey

Conclusion: Lots of similarities with the 12 but more refined. Still get that burst of brine right away but not intense and quickly fades to all the fruity flavors. The finish is sublime like I coated my mouth with honey and started to chew on a piece of Juicy Fruit gum, looking up the price and it looks like it is pretty affordable for a 17 year old, might need to pick up a bottle next time I travel to someplace that has it.

Rating: A

A+:  Perfection, how do I replace my blood with this! (95-100/100)

A: Damn good, would love to always keep a bottle of this laying around at all times if I could afford to. (90-95/100)

B: I like it, would buy the occasional bottle, or order the occasional glass, but there are others I prefer more. (80-89/100)

C: Unremarkable but drinkable, right in the middle of the bell curve. (70-79/100)

D: Mixer, I don?t want to drink it straight up. (60-69/100)

F: Nope, nope, nope (59-0/100)



Thanks to /u/scotchchick for the samples.  Old Pulteney gains distinction as the northern most mainland distillery on Scotland, and is often described as having a heavy maritime character, while having a lighter peat flavor than the Islays, Taliskers, and Ledaigs of the world.  Both the 17 and the 21 are being discontinued, though to my knowledge, they've yet to state what they are being replaced with.  Regardless, if you like them, best to stock up now.  The 17 is aged in 90% refill bourbon casks and 10% first fill oloroso sherry.  The 21 is aged in ex bourbon and ex fino casks, but I can't seem to find the percentage.  The 21 gained a lot of hype after being named the best whisky in the world by Jim Murray in 2012 (but who cares).  Anyways, let's have a taste.

Old Pulteney 17, 46% ABV, no chill filtration, no color added

Good degree of complexity here.  I was picking up new flavors with every sip.  The brine and fruit notes worked well together.  Lovely nose.  Pretty nice finish.

87/100

?

I'm at the last dram of my beloved Old Pulteney. Plus I had a full-on allergic reaction yesterday that involved a medical team and an epipen. Time for a drink! I'm a big fan of the 12 for the price so I sprung for a bottle of the 17 after finding it for a reasonable price online. In general, I've been on a salty & sweet scotch kick and my hope was that the 17 would rectify the obvious imperfections of the 12:

Region: Highland
ABV: 46%
Price: $86    

Poured: Neat into a Glencairn
Nose: honey, malt, salty air, lemon, herbacious
Mouthfeel: Medium, creamy
Palate: Vanilla, Banana, Apple Juice. Intense brine then hit of spice. Pretty short finish. Oak, spice, fruit, brown sugar, citrus, grapefruit, earthy

Rating: 87/100

Fruity, salty, & spicy. Very easy to pick out those aspects. It's an improvement over the 12 but still retains similar characteristics. My main gripe is that I don't feel the flavors are well integrated. First you're hit with the fruit then bam! salt then spice. It demands your attention. Also, the finish is a bit too short. Regardless, it's worth trying. A very fine, tasty and distinctive spirit.



Old Pulteney 17

Price: $90
ABV: 46%
Details:    

Nose: Fresh fruit and a lot of it (banana, apple, strawberry, peach), coastal saltiness, honey, mint, floral, nuts (cashew), brown sugar. Subtle, and I like that the spirit hasn?t been overwhelmed by any of the casks.
Taste: Pineapple, salty butterscotch, citrus (lemon, grapefruit, orange), floral, a touch of wood. Medium body with a creamy feel.
Finish: Tobacco, wood, cereal, salt, light pepper spice. Compared to the nose and taste, this is a little flat, but still fine. After the remnants linger on the tongue a while, I find an interesting pine nut and ginger flavor/aroma.

Conclusion: A very pleasing whisky to take some time with. I really enjoy how it can be so fruity without being overly sweet. The people at OP have done a remarkable job of selecting and preparing good casks, then blending the bourbon and sherry cask whiskies so that it isn?t like drinking a glass of vanilla or raisin syrup; excellent balance between the major notes. 

This whisky is likely colored, but is probably not chill-filtered due to it going very cloudy/misty when water is added (the distillery does not offer any details that I can find about the coloring or filtration). While it is pricey, it is definitely worth picking up a bottle if you like the 12, but find that the 12 is lacking complexity. I enjoyed the 12, but I find it is very heavy on the salt and honey notes.
Overall: 88 

Note: Scores are based on the quality of the whiskey. Price/value is not included in the score.

Other Old Pulteney reviews:



Nice review.  I did like the fruity characteristics of this bottle, which reminded me (in that fashion) of the Glenlivet 16 year Nadurra.  But I agree with your astringent/bitter description, as well.  It keeps this from being excellent.  

It does not appear to oxidize well, either.  I found it best within a month of being opened.  But I am still working on my bottle, so will see if it comes back around.



I agree with your astringent/bitter description

Not just me then. I got this in spades from the 12, but it seems that not everyone does. One friend I shared mine with had the same reaction I do while other people think it's fine. It's strange. 



Highlands, 46%, color added, unsure about chill-filtering. Mostly matured in bourbon casks, with a portion aged (or finished?) in oloroso sherry casks. Tasted twice, first in a tulip glass and then in a glencairn, splash of water added halfway through in both cases. 

Nose: butterscotch, characteristic oloroso nuttiness, mild ocean air, a little green apple.

Palate: Mild citrus and green apple drizzled with honey. Toasted pecans. Yellow cake. It?s got flavor, but still pretty light. Something astringent and bitter pokes its head in now and again, which detracts from an otherwise enjoyable palate. 

Finish: Salted nuts. Oak comes forward, turning bitter. The finish isn?t terribly distinctive or lasting.   

Conclusion: I was not a fan of the 12 year. This is quite a bit better, but I?m starting to think I?m just not that into the OP style. I still get a certain unpleasant bitter flavor from the palate and finish on and off. I?m not sure what it is, but it really takes away from the dram. Maybe this distillery just isn?t for me. 

Buy a bottle? Cheapest I?ve seen it for is around $90 and more often it?s over $100. Even at that lower price it?s a pass for me. 

80/100



Seems that OP doesn't jibe with my palate for whatever reason. Oh well. Means a little more for those of you who are fans. 

I'll still see if I can try the 21 sometime. 



OP 17:  strangely enough strait after the pour the nose reminded me of a rye. Ha! After that initial nasal confusion it is much more the sea then Wild West. Similar to the above but more intense plus rye spices and a bit more grassy, the citrus note now is more orange then lemon, also more fruits (tropical) and some caramel and of course salt, malt, vanilla, ok not very similar but recognizable similar. After some air time the Sherry notes also join in 

Taste:
OP 17: caramel, strong salt, nuts, a bit bitter tannin, also a general feeling of Sherry influence but not very prominent or specific, fruit compote, not as citrus-y as the 12yo but still recognizable citrus fruits but more orange or grapefruit, malt - more powerful due to the 6% more abv

Finish:
OP 17: oak tannin but not as much as the 17 years would suggest, here the added Sherry casks show with hints of dark fruits, raisins and figs, brine and toffee, drying. A very brine-y taste in mouth and throat stays, meh :(

Conclusion:
OP 17:  I don't know, not really my type of malt somehow, I actually preferred the 12 over this, it surely is a great example of a maritime malt but I'd liked it more without the Sherry influence. On the other hand I can see why so many people around here like OP either 12 or 17 but, same as with Springbank (just had the 10 so far and have some theoretically amazing ones to taste ahead), it's probably good but I don't really like it, so 

C+ 79/100



REVIEW #141: Old Pulteney 12 year - 40% abv

Nose:  apricot, dry oak, floor wax, malt, marshmallow, heather/floral/honeysuckle, lemon pith, brine, 

Taste: watery, sweet, savory, brine, toffee, smoke, honey, lemon zest

Finish: wisp of smoke, light jalape?o heat?, sweet, ginger, malty, ginger bite, limoncello, bitter, wood dust 

Score: 84/100 dropped a point

Buy a full bottle? Maybe

Closing Thoughts: Hm.  The nose was pretty closed for awhile, not super deep but pleasant.  I don?t really like limoncello.  It?s very malty, citrus, salt, toffee? Just doesn?t woo me.

REVIEW #142: Old Pulteney 17 year - 46% abv

Nose:  honey, heather, honeysuckle, floral, floor wax, lemon pith, brine, seaweed, grass clippings, apricot, dry oak, mint

Taste: thicker, honey, viscous, huge improvement over the 12, sweet, melted butter, toffee, lemon candy, ginger beer, sea salt, 

Finish: drying, salt water taffy, ginger snap cookie, nilla wafer, medium length, limoncello again, bitter finish

Score: 87/100 Dropped 1 point

Buy a full bottle? No

Closing Thoughts: Better than the 12, but a more astringent profile than I prefer.  No flaws, but not my thing.  More character than the 12 though, a good improvement.

This is: Old Pulteney 17, a coastal Highland single malt from an underrated distillery in my opinion. Only Highland Park 12 and the old version of Ardmore Traditional Cask have I purchased more often than the delightful and affordable Old Pulteney 12. Let's see what the bigger brother has going on.
46% ABV, $90.  

Color: amber.  

Nose: sweet, nutty, & salty... Malt, cashew, almond, peach, and seabreeze.  

Taste: smooth, sweet, & salty... Caramel, peanut brittle, more malt, and stout beer.  

Finish: dry, sweet, & warming... Toffee, cocoa, slight cherry, rye, and finally some nice dry oak.  

Conclusions: very much what I expected from an older OP - a good step up from the 12. I would say it's quite similar to Bunnahabhain 18, its (more expensive) spiritual cousin from Islay. 91/100
