I went to a Scotch tasting at a local bar and I?ve been sitting on a bit of a backlog of reviews from that. The tasting went fast, so I had to jot down my notes more quickly than I would have liked. Here?s the first.

Scapa 16, Island, ABV 40%

Color: ruddy gold, with thin legs

Nose: apple, toffee, spice

Palate: honey, floral notes, caramel

Finish: malty, medium long, a bit hot for only being 40%

I originally tasted this blind and had it pegged as a Speyside. A decent, unoffensive offering, but a bit on the boring side. A bottle of this would set me back $99.22.

81/100







This one can be a bit hard to find. As far as I can tell, the 16 yr is the only official bottling at the moment.   

I wouldn't call this a classic, but it does stand out on its own.
Overall, a bit underwhelming for the age and price.

79/100 (review #11)



Not too hard to find in NYC--astor has it, for example.

I think it's actually quite a bit better than you wrote, I'd give it mid-high 80s.  It's got an amazing lightness and fruit to it, not sweet at all.



Hello Scotchit, Seienshin here with another group review. I decided on a theme that really appeals to me: Older Island Malts. I have been on a trip to Islay with my father and brother, which were 3 days in the top 10 days of my life. I really love the Islay character of brine, sea salt and warming earthiness. Peated or unpeated: awesome whiskies. I don?t discriminate, so I reviewed other island malts as well. It includes all of Islay (except my beloved Kilchoman because the oldest Kilchoman I have is 7.5 years) as well as Orkney, Jura and the Isle Of Skye. I hope to get my hands on some Arran Devils Punchbowl next!

Also I couldn?t decide on a picture and I wasn?t going to upload 11 images, so here?s a pretty picture of the Isle of Skye instead.

Review #39: Scapa 16

?3 for 2cl.

ABV 40% E150a, Chill filtered.

Colour: Amber (I?m starting to feel ridiculous writing these colours down because they?re all very similar).

Nose: Brine, grass, honey, caramel. Floral, slight peat and some bounty chocolate.

Very light but a nice nose. I don?t think this was designed to blow anyone away.

Palate: Spiciness I can?t quite put my finger on. Floral, brine, toffee, honey, apricots, blue berries.

Again, nice taste, but not very bold. 

Finish: Short, some honey and brine. 

Overall: Inoffensive but nice. I wouldn?t buy a bottle but the spices on the nose are unique and interesting.

Rating: 81/100. Nice whisky, but kind of pricey, get some Old Pulteney instead. 




I quite like reading several together like this to compare whiskies. Nice reviews!

You're dutch, right? From what part of the country?



Hullo chaps!

Welcome to my fifth whisky review. This time around, I decided to take my notes for Scapa 16. This is from the same night I tried Lagavulin and a couple others, so that's probably influenced my notes quite a bit. Here's my attempted notes:

In the glass: 

Looks like liquid honey. I like it!

Scapa 16:

Nose:

Liquid honey, sweet malt, sherry, fennel, sweet bananas.

Taste:

Light sweetness, white Bassett's winegums, somewhat nutty, mellow citrus, a bit of pear or green apple.

Finish:

A wee alcohol burn, heat that enhances sweetness in the mouth, a bit of peat, kinda jelly-bean-esque tones. 

This was a really pleasant drink. Unfortunately, I had drunk a couple very peated whiskies prior to this, and I was getting a bit drunk at this point. I recommend it, though.

88/100

@review_bot



/u/Rallerboy888's  reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Thanks for the feedback :)

Many more reviews will be up soon!



Scapa 16

$80, 40% abv 

I have always been curious about Scapa, ?the other Orkney.?  Fortunately, I was able to grab a wee dram at my local shop today, so this will be a quick review.  I must say the bottle oozes elegance?

Nose: Rich honey, orange preserve, apples, faint floral leather, slightly coastal.  It?s a little abrasive at first but after 15 minutes it really puts a smile on your face.

Palate: Soft orange cream, vanilla frosted cookies, salt water taffy

Finish: Not long or bitter.  A row across a quiet bay while sipping apple juice.  You want to drink more of this stuff, and it is a great transitional dram for this time of year in New England.

84/100 It?s mellow and pleasant.  Not overly sweet or woody.  If someone bought me a bottle I would be very happy, but I have other whiskies in the $80 price range that I want more.  I seriously cannot wait for these gentlemen to catch the ?craft whisky? bug and release a NCF 46% expression.



Poured: Neat into a Glencairn

Nose: Light ripe fruits, ripe red delicious apple, green apple, plum, chocolate, mint
Mouthfeel: Medium/Light. Very soft. 46% abv
Palate: Mellow Malt. Mild, watery. Milky. Apple. Salty. Medium finish with plum, ripe banana and toasted corn flakes. Very fruity but also complex and distinctive.

Rating: 86/100

Lots of fruit but enough complexity to keep me intrigued. Wasn't crazy about it at first but was wistfully savoring my final sips. Very distinctive and tasty! I've heard you loving Clynelish so I'm guessing:

Guess: Clynelish 14
Reveal: Scapa 16




Great reviews!  You liked Rocks more than I did.  Do you like Bruichladdich in general?  

I'm thrilled to see a decent score for the Scapa.  I really like their stuff.  The 12yr which is not available anymore was fantastic.  Its too bad they have replaced the 16 with some NAS crap.

Springbank 10 is absolutely fantastic and one of the best values in scotch imo. 



I've had mixed experiences with Bruichladdich but generally haven't liked what I've tried. Love dat Springbank. I've been hesitant to spring for the higher age statements since the 10 is so solid for the price.

Yeah Scapa 16 is very nice although overpriced for what it offers



Hello Scotchit! Today i'm reviewing Scapa 16. I received this sample in a swap with /u/TOModera. On to the review. Slainte!    

Scapa 16
40% ABV, e150a, 60 ml sample      

Nose Herbal tea. Clove. Dried orange. Oak. Mandarin. Orange Bassett's wine gums. 

Palate Light. Medium body. Wood spice. Orange peel. Mandarin marmalade. Hint of clove. 

Finish Herbal. Clove. Old wood. Faint orange. Fairly short. 

Hmm. This doesn't really impress or disappoint. It feels decently balanced with a good amount a flavour. This feels like a very weak, severely watered down Tamdhu 8 CS. Watering something down below 46% should be a criminal offence.  

Overall, 67/100  

Buy again? No.

Most similar to:  

Tamdhu 8, The Ultimate



I think this malt has good bones.  I was getting a lot of pleasant orange cream during my encounter and found it a relaxing (inoffensive/easy) dram.

I do agree that they need to hop on the authentic presentation train.

Does anyone know/have Scapa Cask Strength?



I certainly think that with a lot of the reviews here it's pointless having a rating out of 100. I've read a few reviews of relatively poor whisky with a long, somewhat scathing review and at the end it still receives like 80/100. People may as well just use a 1-20 scale. 

It's kinda refreshing to see the full range being used, if it were the norm it would be much more informative. 



Scapa 16, 40%  /u/TOModera
Nose: honey, caramel, raw pumpkin seed
Taste: honey, toffee/caramel, peppers
Finish: black pepper
Rating: 80/100
Final Thoughts: Not incredibly interesting. It?s scotch, for sure.  

*edit: right after going back to finish the last sip of this, I got HUGELY wonderful noseful of banana nut bread. Weird. It had been sitting there for about 45 minutes. Will need to go back on this one. Initially only sat for about 15 mins.

Review # 77

Scapa 16:   40%  750ml $89 Total Beverage ($72 with coupon)

Color:  Amber +1, Quick Wide Tears.

Nose:  Almond, Honey, Vanilla, Carmel, Oak, Brown Sugar, Orange Zest, Barley Syrup, Cola, Pepper, Red Apples.

Mouth Feel:  Oily, Warm, Medium Spice.

Taste:  White Pepper, Carmel, Syrup, Almonds, Honey, Vanilla, Orange Zest (just like the nose), Red Apple, Juicy Pear, Raspberry.

Finish:  Honey, Oak, Spice, Lemon, Vanilla, Carmel, Clove, Cereal.

With Water:  Nose:  Vanilla, Honey Carmel (Sweet notes come back more pronounced), Orange Marmalade.
Taste: Ginger, Maple Syrup, White Pepper, Lipton Tea, Pinch of Salt.

Score:  Nose:  22,  Taste:  22,  Finish:  21,  Balance:  21,   Total: 86

The taste mirrors the nose very effectively.  It seems tamed down a bit, a higher ABV might be more interesting.  A nice bourbon cask influence.  A fairly tasty dram, but a bit pricy for what you get in this whisky. 



It's difficult to price a scotch for someone else.  For me around $60 would be more reasonable for this particular bottle.  The price I paid with the coupon of $72 was easier to swallow than the almost $90 they were asking.  

It's a good whisky, but I have tasted whiskies that have more complexity, depth and character for less money IMO:  Talisker, Edradour, Macallan CS, Aberlour NCF, Laphroaig CS just to name a few. 

If this is your favorite, that is awesome, it's a good one for sure.  For my tastes and given the number of reviews I have done, it's good, It's just not my personal favorite.  That's why this a great hobby, there are scotches for every kind of taste and connoisseur and no one is more correct in their opinion than anyone else.   



Yeah, even $72 sounds expensive to me. It shows up at my local liquor store every now and then. I'll make sure and price next time I see it.

Edit: and to at
