First review! I have notes from another whisky (which chronologically I actually owned first) that I?m writing up for another post, but I?ll go in order from lighter to darker like a good Scotchitter. 

Nose: Apple juice, leather, smoke. With water, the tang of apple juice disappears, and you?re left with smokey, maybe baked apples, and the raw, un-oiled, perhaps freshly-cut, leather comes out more.

Taste: Apples or cider (not juice), the same leather that was in the nose. The smoke is there, but very mild. With water, the apple flavor is diluted, and mixes with the leather to yield something more like raisins or other dried fruit. I also get a little vanilla here, but only with a little water added. With or without water, there?s a floral honey that carries you through the full taste experience, from nose-in-glass, front to back of palate, almost through to finish.

Finish: APPLE JUICE. LIKE WHOA.

Thoughts: I have mixed feelings on this whisky. I want to like it, but can?t really wholeheartedly recommend it. It was the second bottle I purchased, and it was intended as a celebration of a minor career success. Minor being the key word here, I went to my local store and picked a bottle at the lower end of their price range ($33 in NYC). I tried it once in the evening on my rooftop with a nice spring breeze blowing, and found it unimpressive but smooth, and enjoyed more of the smoke and leather notes. The apple was subdued here - I get the sense the breeze blew away that lighter scent. However, when I tried it indoors, any impression I had was quickly overwhelmed by the apple juice finish that lingered far too long, and overpowered everything else. I don?t get the peat that others seem find appealing, and I looked hard for it, trust me. Islay is more my style. Overall, the value is good, but it?s a little too simplistic, and missing some of the key things I like in my whisky. That honey I mentioned, rather than helping, makes it feel more single-note than perhaps it really is. I?d prefer this either more peated and smokier, or more sherried. Anything to give it the depth I find lacking.

Score: 70/100



Having finally applied for RTVF status at my university, I decided to take a stop at the new liquor store that opened a few months ago slightly north of my home. The selection overall was quite lacking in various types of liquor as they're having problems with their distribution center, but, in spite of my desire not to spend more than $20 (lackluster paycheck this week) I wandered over to the single malt section to peruse what they had for future reference. I've had my eye on trying Lagavulin 16 ever since Nick Offerman's AMA, and was surprised to see they didn't even have that in stock. I was however surprised to see a single malt for under $40, and on an impulse I purchased it to see just how good a $25 single malt can be. Considering this is only my second review this is primarily me attempting to differentiate other single malts from Laphroaig 10, so bear with me!

Speyburn 10, 43% ABV, $25

taken with a bit of water

Color: dark, dark gold. almost a hint of brown. very pleasing on the eye. 10/10

Nose: A pleasant combination of fruit and flowers, specifically strawberries, with a just as powerful hint of sweetness or sugar, not too overwhelming though. when i first opened the bottle i caught a slight scent of a bock-style beer. Not quite powerful or unique, but overall very pleasant. 28/30

Taste: medium body, but none of the fruity or flowery elements present in the nose. the sweetness comes to the forefront and is very pleasant, but there's not much else. Not quite as complex as I'd like, but not terrible. 22/30

Finish: very succinct and non-offensive taste of smoke or peat. Kind of boring, honestly. 20/30

Overall: 70/100

This is the kind of dram that doesn't particularly wow me, but I wouldn't mind having in my collection. On the plus side, i feel like it's a good, inoffensive single malt to serve to people who may not be huge into whisky, but compared to other things I've tried it really doesn't cut the mustard. 

For $25 though? I'm just glad to not be drinking cheap $10 blends. 



Oh shoot!

Sorry red, I remember now.



As not to clog the intertubes and take up precious space with my reviews, I'm doing this as a two-fer. I tried these 2 single malts a week apart, coincidentally, as they couldn't be farther apart. 

I was looking to find an every day single malt that was lighter on my wallet because over the course of several months enjoying my new hobby, there has been an a sizeable amount of revenue outflow. And while the enjoyment has been priceless, my mortgage company could not give less fucks. That being said I happened upon...

Speyburn 10

43% ABV, 86 Proof

Tried neat, followed by a tablespoon of water. Most notes are without water, asterisk denotes with.

Price: $30 USD

Color: Straw (1/1)

Nose: Fragrant floral musk (it reminded me of my grandmother's house), chrysanthemums, apricots*. (27/33)

Taste: Very thin feel, medicinal, nail polish remover, very very faint smoke*. (17/33)

Finish: Not very much, cheap cigar, peat, ammonia, salt, very quick and doesn't linger long. (17/33)

67/100

After trying Speyburn out, I checked out some other people's reviews and was surprised. Not that they rated theirs so much higher, necessarily, but that mine was so much different. It could very well be my "new-ness" to scotch, and I don't dispute that someone could enjoy this malt, but that someone definitely isn't me. I think I might have to head to a better package store that has more variety to keep looking for a thriftier single malt.

I very quickly realized why the Highland Park 12 ranks so high as an entry level scotch. I've cut my teeth mainly on heavily sherried Speysides, and this was a specific and deliberate attempt to broaden my taste to something smokier. My definite favorite between them...

Thanks for reading!



I was just giving Jan a hard time about Speyburn.  Your review was great.  Everyone has different tastes.  I think it's really only me and esajz24 that like Speyburn.

Some things I have learned:  Revisit a bottle after you have opened it.  As you develop your taste and you ability to taste them your likings may change.  As you are reviewing make sure your pallet is clean (No spicy foods, your nose is snot free, etc.).  And enjoy what you like.  No one is buying this scotch for you, you are buying it for yourself.  Take your time and enjoy the journey.

Laphroaig is a favorite of mine, so enjoy.  Its a strong flavored Islay so be prepared.



It's clear from the past reviews that some people are clearly into it. Probably, but not only, for the reason it attracted me. 

The HP12 has been my favorite bottle so far, next to the Nadurra, but I'm waiting to review it because I want it's contents to last forever.



I'm one of the people that likes Speyburn 10. To me it's rather nice malt whisky. I'll bet in blind tastings it would fair rather well!

Great reviews though, especially early on. I sense great things from you 

:-)



Proof: http://imgur.com/1xeYV

Promised a review of the Cardhu and figured I'd throw in the other two as I'd had some notes already written somewhere. Also, don't mind those bourbon bottles. >_>






I've been on the fence about getting a bottle of Cardhu for months (mostly because of the complete glut of Speyside out there and no idea what to get) and this sealed the deal, thanks! 

My wallet however does not thank you. 



Good review.

I'm not that experienced yet, so searching and describing nose, taste and finish is a bith crude. 

I got the Cardhu 12 y/o and wrote down some stuff about it and compared it to yours. I'm happy I can discover the same core as you :d.

Nose:
- Fruits, lemon, sherry, wood. Opens up on some a couple drops of water and reveals a hint of peat.

taste:
- Quite a strong start for 40%, fruity, hint of clove, near the end grass (but that could be because the sun is shining and it's the first warmer day). I somehow get some, a hint, medicinal, but not like Laphr.  

Finish:
- a hint of peat (non-peat drinker would probably appreciate it aswell), but sweet. Dry. Short, but pleasant.



Speyburn 10yo:

Not a whole lot to say; it's inexpensive but very, very, (almost scarily) drinkable. However, it won't leave you pondering upon the palate.

On the nose there is lemon, a hint of pear, and honey. It's very light.
Taste isn't much different. Distinct lemon zest, processed honey sweetness, hints of smoke (think 3 days later smoke smell; not very prevalent.), I have 'golden hay' written down but I'm not sure if that was on my first glass or third. Towards the end there's a ginger spice leading into what I'll call the 'finish'. The finish is very brief/sudden. What came to mind is lemon/ginger incense for a moment then it leaves you.

Like I said, not very complex or 'deep' but very enjoyable (especially for the price!!) Would be a good house scotch to have in the summer.

Taste: 61/75
Value: 13/15
Uniqueness: 2/5
Would Buy Again: 4/5

80/100.






Thought of some flair: Spice of life? Barley, Corn, Rye, Wheat. 

Is that too long? If so, maybe: Variety? Barley, Corn, Rye, Wheat. 

or something. -_-;



Hello Scotchit, first review here. Happy to take any pointers.

Currently in the bunker are a partial of Macallan 12, an almost-full Yamazaki 12 (bought at the same time as today's bottle), a partial of Bulleit Rye[1], a full 375 of Pine Barrens, and a just-finished Black Bottle. I picked up this Speyburn on a lark the other day when in my local store, causing my wife to scowl at the receipt and ask how I could spend $95 on two bottles of whisky when she could get a case of wine for that. (She enjoys the American whiskey but makes faces with any of the scotch. Lovely girl.) This bottle was about $33 of that $95.

Tasting in my mancave out of a glencairn.

Color: Honey with a bit of depth, like the oak from whence it came.

Nose: Poached pears and some alcohol. Some stonefruit, almost like the hops-that-smell-like-apricot flavor of Magic Hat #9.

Taste: Light oak up front with a touch of sherry. Medium body with some malty sweetness. The aforementioned pear and stonefruit flavors make a delayed appearance. A splash of water brings out some lighter fruit and faint brown sugar.

Finish: Warm alcohol burn. More poached pears, which have now been caramelized. Short finish with a more lingering burn. 

Though not an especially challenging dram, this is a nice one to sip on as Long Island gets gradually more and more frigid. It's great for tonight's pursuit - I'm writing assignments and exams for my freshmen - while not wasting The Good Stuff when my mind is otherwise occupied.

On an arbitrary scale, 83/100. Nice flavors. Outside of the rating scale, it has an extremely high value-to-price ratio despite the lack of challenge.

[1] Epilogue: A few ounces of the rye are going into bourbon-glazed carrots tonight with turkey dinner. 



it has an extremely high value-to-price ratio

Completely agree.  People usually skip this because of the price. They are missing out.



This is my 4th review. I have been looking for a quality budget scotch for a bit. I really like the smokiness of Islay scotches, but I don't like their price tag nor the fact that they disappear in a matter of a couple weeks from my liquor cabinet. I'm a daily dram kind of guy, but I refuse to drink crap just because my wallet is crunch.

So, I've been hearing moderately good things about this one, and since I've had a few bottles of decent scotch, I thought I'd give this one another shot.

Speyburn 10, 43% ABV, Highland, $25 USD

Color: light tan leather

Nose: The packaging says it's supposed to have a lemon character, but all I can really say is clean, crisp, hint of peat smoke, and cheeky. The nose on this one is there, then it goes away quickly.

Palate: Light, unobtrusive, no coating, thin (in a good way), actually kind of refreshing citrus that gets drifted away on a gently breeze leaving behind the light peat flavor. Enjoyable.

Finish: This one does not linger and typically I find that to be a bad thing, but for the summer season and for the expectations, the flavor goes away politely and stoically. The peat smoke lingers for a bit, the warming in your throat is subtle, but there, and the clean citrus overtone returns to give this dram a well rounded presentation.

Taste: 60/75 (This isn't scored lowly because it's bad, it just tastes like someone took an amazingly deep scotch and cleaned all the depth off of it. It leaves behind the essence of what was there, but you can tell it used to be great.)
Value: 12/15 (amazingly cheap for the enjoyment and flavors)
Uniqueness: 3/5
WIBA: 5/5 (could be a staple)

Overall: 80/100 Excellent value and great drinkability. Good everyday dram for you and your wallet. 



Speyburn 10 (review #6)

Background:: $28, 43% ABV, says ?Highland? on the bottle, but it?s smack in the middle of Speyside as far as I can tell

Appearance: yellow gold

Nose: slight peat, cereal, green grass, citrus; after a while a touch of butter

Taste: honey, light sweet fruit, oh wow - cinnamon apple!; lemon followed by cayenne; opens up and gives some salted butter; thin mouthfeel

Finish: medium length; citric burn followed by a lingering light sweetness; starts out with a faint touch of cough syrup coating, but that (thankfully!) doesn?t last

Notes: Initially I wasn?t impressed by the nose, but pleasantly surprised by the taste. This is the reverse of how I?ve been experiencing whiskies - normally I get a lot out of the nose and only few notes for taste. After it opened up, though, I found the nose more enjoyable, with the very slight peatiness adding interest to the malty sweetness. I think this will be a perfectly acceptable replacement for the Dalwhinnie - it?s just as nice and for less than half the price, $63 vs $28.

Score: 80

Buy again: Yep, at this price, this will be a good everyday summer whisky



Thanks!

It didn't knock my socks off, but I've got no complaints, either. It's a nice dram.



Review #4: Speyburn 10 Year Old Single Malt

10 years old, 43% ABV, Speyside region, colouring added, 750mL bottle purchased from Jim's Food Mart in Houghton, MI for $30

Appearance 2/5 The light amber colour is achieved with colouring, and the packaging is truly in need of some serious TLC

Nose 3/5 Medicinal but pleasant. Some caramel. Honestly I don't get much here. It's saved by how truly benign it is. Almost no heat from the alcohol. 

Taste 3/5 Vanilla and caramel, medicinal, not much development on the nose. But very little burn. Again, inoffensive. A little oily.

Finish 3/5 Short, inoffensive, hardly there at all. Maybe a good thing?

Score: 60/100 OKAY

In conclusion, it's ok. But let's consider a few things: it's about 2/3 the price of Fiddich/Livet/other entry level drams. It's bottled at 43% (nice move, Speyburn). While it's just ok, if I was factoring in value at all this would be a solid 70. My advice? If you go to a liquor store and this is priced fairly (should never be more than 2/3 the cost of Fiddich/Livet), buy it. It's so cheap, and it's inoffensive. Enjoyable with ice. You won't think about it, you'll just drink it. And have a fatter wallet. Honestly, given the price, I recommend that if you're on a budget you give this a try.

50 drinkable

60 okay

70 decent

80 good

90 excellent



just happened to purchase this few hours ago based on recommendations from here and friends.   Hate it.   

i tried famous grouse for the same reasons and hated it too.   these two are actually very similar.   it's just too freakin sweet. 

really regret not paying 10$ more and getting Glenlivet 12, which i enjoy.



One of the first things I do every time I'm in a liquor store is check out their selection of mini's. They are a great way to try something new without ponying up for a full bottle or paying (extra) for it at a bar. /r/scotchswap is also a great option for trying lots of new expressions. 

I didn't even realize Speyburn 10yr came in a mini, nor did I know much about it at the time, but it was only a couple bucks so I went for it. Probably one of the cheaper single malts on the market, my expectations as I cracked this one were on the low side.

10 years old, bottled at 43% abv.

Color: Straw.

Nose: Floral and fruity, notes of apple, pear, and lemon. A fairly crisp and sweet, yet simple nose. I did get just a whiff of smoke once or twice here as well. 

Taste: Light, not the most viscous mouthfeel, but I've had worse. Notes of honey, grass, pepper, light peat. Very sweet.

Finish: Medium in length. The smoke that I picked up in the nose reappears, along with light peat, oak, and pepper. I did pick up a bitter note once or twice though.

75/100

Overall? Not bad. No, it isn't very complex and it is on the sweeter side, but it is far from undrinkable. A bottle runs about $30 here, which is roughly $10 cheaper than Glenfiddich 12yr. This would make a nice choice for a table scotch. Not sure I'll buy a bottle anytime soon (I have way too many as is), but I have nothing against picking one up. If you do, just don't expect to be blown away.



There are some fantastic bourbons which you can drink straight or on the rocks. 

Check out Old Weller Antique. It's around $20 near me (Denver, CO)



In order for a whiskey to be a bourbon it must be aged in charred American white oak barrels, it must have at least 51% corn and it must not be "enhanced" with anything (no food coloring, no artificial flavors, etc).

This means most bourbons will have very similar characteristics whereas Scotches can vary wildly (a softer Speyside Scotch tastes quite different than a peaty Islay Scotch). 

Bourbons are usually a bit sweet and they usually have strong oak and vanilla flavors. They usually don't have that briny characteristic that many Scotches exhibit. 

Though bourbons are required to have at least 51% corn in their mash bill, the remainder can have any other mix of grains. If they are heavy on malted barley then they will usually be sweeter and have more caramel-like characteristics, if they are heavy on rye then they will have more spicy and fruity characteristics, with wheat they tend to have sweeter characteristics. 



Nice review!

I didn't care for the Speyburn 10.  The extra 10 dollars for Glenfiddich or Glenlivet 12 is worth it just so I don't have to cringe slightly when I sip. There was just something raw about the Speyburn, but maybe I'm being too harsh.



Speyburn 10, 43% ABV

After wondering for years?almost as long as I have been drinking the stuff, really?why my preference for single malts over blends exists when some of the single malts I most love are in fact not that much more expensive than some blends (so it?s not like I?m swilling the best stuff), but I think I now know why, at least a little bit.

I have finally theorized that my preference exists because entry-level single malts often go for one major note?Aberlour 12, sherry; Laphroaig 10, peat; Glenfiddich 12, disappointment (kidding, all you Fiddy fans); and so on?with other minor notes complementing it, whereas blends try to integrate several flavors in more equal measures.  Essentially, these single malts strive to be the master of a trade and blends, the jack of all trades.  How successful they are at it?well, that?s why we review ?em.  But I?d rather keep several different inexpensive single malts with diverse flavor profiles on hand rather than an equal number of blends (which are usually only a little cheaper, if at all), and just reach for whichever single malt I?m in the mood for at that particular moment.

So on a lark, I recently grabbed a bottle of Speyburn 10 off the liquor store shelf, probably because I?m a bit of a masochist and am actively curious how truly bad the cheapest of single malts (at least, in my area, excluding Total Wine?s house brands, which are across the board undrinkable) really is.  And I guess it seems poetically appropriate to do my tenth review on a 10-year-old whisky.

I ended up very pleasantly surprised.  Speyburn, as it turns out, is owned by the same company that owns my beloved Old Pulteney as well as anCnoc, Balblair, and Balmenach, and I can at least attest to the quality of OP and anCnoc?s ranges, so perhaps this company (Inver House Distillers, which is in turn owned by Thai Beverages) cares about putting out quality stuff, because the Speyburn 10 really isn?t bad at all, especially for the price.  Per my theorizing above on the nature of inexpensive single malts, this one is definitely a one-trick pony, but it does that trick well.

(Also, Speyburn?s initial, historical name apparently is Speyburn-Glenlivet, back from when other distillers would tack the Glen?s name onto theirs with a hyphen in the hopes of boosting sales, prompting Glennie to start referring to itself as ?The? Glenlivet.  Not really relevant to the review, and many of you may already have known that, but I found that bit of history to be rather interesting nonetheless.  Now, onto the actual review.)

Nose: Very bright, lots of honeysuckle and floral notes to start, along with fresh soil, straw or hay, fruit tart or jam, and a hint of vanilla extract.  Letting it sit brings out the pleasant floral notes more.

Body: A tad light, but not in a profoundly ethereal sense that I might appreciate.  It could start to offer a little more mouthfeel and roundedness so as to better coat the tongue.

Palate: Still more honey from the palate?and lots of it?but there?s also some salted caramel, cream, nuttiness (pecans and almonds in particular), brittle, and toffee swirling around in the mix as well.  Not the most complex palate, but what it does, it does well; the honey doesn?t overwhelm it.

Finish: A bit rough in transition, with some burn that overwhelms the remaining palate flavors (the missus said this was the only part of it she didn?t like), which belies the product?s youth, I think, and prevents it from scoring any higher than it did.  But once you get past that, it mellows out into a nice malty linger that I found perfectly satisfying.

Price: USD $28 at the nearby Total Wine.  Hard to complain too much about its moderate shortcomings at that price.  This is blend territory, not single malt territory, and Speyburn compares very favorably to a lot of different blends because it hits its one note reasonably well, whereas quite a few blends in my experience tend to fluff the many different notes they?re trying to go for.  A great value buy.

Overall: Really, this is a very solid daily drinker choice.  I?d put it in the same bracket, quality-wise, as entry-level products like the Glen Grant 10, and the bracket above entry-level products like the Aberfeldy 12, plus the Speyburn 10 is $10-15 less expensive than either.  Basically, if you want the Dalwhinnie 15 but won?t or can?t shell out $60, this is a simpler, but very affable, stand-in.  80/100

(PS: mods, tartan me, please?  Thanks!)
