From the Isle of Skye.  This is my first Talisker strangely enough.  Looks to be articially colored and likely chill filtered.  Aged 10 years  and bottled at 45.8% ABV.

Nose: Light misty smoke.  Vanilla and some sweetness.  Cedar and oak.

Palate: Medium weight and kind of creamy.  Very smooth.  Strawberries, some citrus.  Vanilla cake frosting.  Smoked ham.  Earthy peat and pepper as well.

Finish: Medium length.  Nice layers of smoke.  A touch medicinal, but nowhere near Laphroaig.  Simple, but smooth and nice.

Score: 87/100

Very smooth and enjoyable.  I'm generally into more complex / strange / weird whisky, but this hits all the notes for a lovely everyday drinker.  Given that the prices are usually pretty good for this, I may have to pick up a bottle.  Can't believe it took me so long to try this one.



Wife bought me a bottle a couple of months ago. Ten year anniversary, ten year scotch, God bless her. Honestly though I'm having trouble getting into it and I'm not sure which aspect of it is challenging for me. Is it the saltiness? The maritime notes?

I also have Ardbeg 10 and Lagavulin 16 on my shelf, and I like them both, especially the Ardbeg, but something about the Talisker is really hard for me to appreciate.



Hmm, interesting.  Have you had Laphroaig before?  This leans a bit that way (in the iodine / medicinal notes) and many people find that off putting.  But Ardbeg has some of that too.  Hmm...

Well if you decide you don't like it and want to trade it, I'd be happy to take it off your hands for a bunch of samples or an inexpensive bottle.



I've tried Laphroaig at a pub and liked it, although obviously tasting a scotch in a crowded pub in a rocks glass isn't ideal. 

It's not that i can't appreciate it, I'm halfway through the bottle, but I do find it quite challenging. Appreciate the swap offer but unfortunately I'm in Australia :) Besides, might get into trouble trading away an anniversary present!



Talisker 10

(45.8%)

?

Thanks to u/Throzen for this sample!

?

Nose: Brine, citrus, salt-cured fish, apple, nuts, hay, light smoke

Taste: Caramel, brine, black pepper, lemon cough drops, earth, seaweed, cereal notes

Finish: Brine, black pepper, nutmeg, brown sugar, seaweed

? 

Big on the briny and coastal notes, cut with some refreshing fruitiness and savoury notes on the nose. Sweet up front, again big and briny but also some herbal/earthy qualities now with a feisty peppery kick to the taste. The finish is predominantly spicy, with the brine balanced by a lingering faint brown sugar-like sweetness and a bit of a sourish aftertaste.

Quite rich and full bodied with bold flavours, decent complexity and balance and a pretty unique style. For an entry level OB malt, this quickly exceeded my expectations and ended up being a pleasant surprise. I can see this being an easy gateway drug for someone seeking a path to more peated drams. For myself, must remember to seek out some more Talisker in the future...

?

85/100



I think the sweetness is what I like most about Talisker 10. it's not as overbearingly sugary as in Laphroaig10, but still very noticeable and a great contrast to what comes afterwards.

always a lovely dram and one of the most well rounded 10 year old standard releases.



Yeah I make no sense sometimes. Ardbeg 10 next. 

Depends on what you're looking to get out of the 18 I suppose. I find the boldness of strong singular notes will likely be reduced, but probably replaced by some additional depth and layering of notes together in other unique ways. 



Talisker 10 year old 91.6 proof

Color: heavy tan with a touch of red

Nose: white pepper, dry perfumed paper, sweet linen.  smoked truffles.  

Taste: sweet smokey peat.  light raisins.  salt and pepper honey.  full bodied oak.

finish: tangy sweet and mildly salty. longing

a wonder dram from Skye and a great way to break into the smokey Scotches.  it was also my first real single malt that I ever bought.

91/100



The Classic Malts of Scotland - What's a classic? Wikipedia defines classic as something that is a perfect example of a particular style, something of lasting worth or with a timeless quality.

Sure, in the first instance The Classic Malts of Scotland brand is a marketing issue. But what do you think, do they each deserve to be taged as a classic? Which one does? Which one does not? Why? Other malts aside from these six that should be "classified"?

Talisker 10

Isle of Skye, 45.8%

*color: castor oil

*nose: campfire at the North Atlantic coast

*taste: pepper, chili, wood smoke, sweet peat

*finish: Bam! Explosive, a real afterburner

Spiciest malt I've ever had. Very special.

88/100



Talisker 10, not much more to say here, only distillery on the Isle of Skye, up there with Lagavulin and Clynelish as part of Diageo's better offerings. And one of my 4 favourite whiskies ever.

Nose: Burning grass. A strong salty herbal note. Smoked meat. Dirty smoke like from an oil fire. Salted fish and seaweed. Hint of camomile. Wet wood. Anise. Spearmint leaves. A malty floral note. Rubber. Apples. Creme Brulee (because it has that burned creamy not). Smells like victoriously walking through the remains of a Viking raid. 

Palate: Dirty, thick smoke. Charred wood. Earth. Rich medicinal herbs. Lots of salt and seaweed. Smoked fish. More Vikings. 

Finish: Long lingering salt and smoke. Almost a smoked salmon note with a bit of wood. Hemp.   

Rating: 10/10 (Sorry but I just love this stuff)

This is one of my absolute favourites, I have a bottle on the shelf all the time. I don't know why but it's just special to me. I've tried many other taliskers (Skye, Storm, Dark Storm, 18, 25) but none come close to this, well maybe the 25, but it's more of a noble old whisky than a real Talisker in my opinion. A retired Viking that doesn't go to sea anymore.  



Submission added to database (but not yet archived in the official Whisky Review Archive, please do so manually).

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire | Happy April Fool's



Talisker 10

One of DIageo?s original ?Classic Malts?, this one represents the Islands region - more specifically, this one is from the Isle of Skye. Fun fact - despite the remote location, this is supposedly Diageo?s most visited distillery. Thanks to /u/ColeAZ for the sample.

10 years old. 45.8% abv. 

Nose - Sweet honey and vanilla notes, wood smoke (reminds me of the smoke from oak chunks off my smoker), somewhat floral, oregano, black pepper, smoked fish. Seems savory as much as sweet. Unique, interesting stuff.

Palate - Sweet honey and vanilla notes lead off. The wood smoke, oregano, and smoked seafood show up as it develops, with a bit of pepperyness. Medium body - a bit more weight to this than the 43% Classic Malts. Again, interesting and unique.

Finish - Gets earthier, smokier, and progressively more peppery, with a bit of oceany salinity (seaweed?) and maybe some lemon making an appearance as well. The finish is a lot of fun.

I?ve always enjoyed this, and if it were less than $65-$70+ near me for an entry level 10 yo single malt it would have a regular spot in my cabinet. There?s nothing else quite like Talisker, and if you?re new to Scotch you owe it to yourself to at least try it at a bar. My bitching about price aside, I do quite enjoy this, especially the finish, which bumps my score a bit (price never factors in to my scores).

88/100

Talisker 10 - 45.8% ABV

Appearance:   light yellow gold.

Nose: light yellow gold.

Taste: salty. My boss says left nut ballsack . Lightly peaty. Nutty. Very peppery. Creamy

Finish: longer. Tasty. Very enjoyable. 

Rating: 90


/u/muaddib99's  reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Bold flavours first???? BOLD FLAVOURS FIRST!

Okay, that is by far the shittiest tasting I've ever heard of. That bartender deserves no money, no help, and I generally hope that he has to face a rough time in the future because he's poor at his job that eventually makes him realize that he's wrong.

Seriously, on what planet does "Bold Flavours First" make sense?



i know he's a  tool. 

he added an auto-gratuity, probably because he knew we were dissatisfied and wouldn't have given him anything. it was honestly one of the worst restaurant experiences of my life.



trust me, i wanted to. i've seen your reviews and called them to find out more too... they even had their monthly tasting night yesterday. 

told the boss from the start that we should go there.. she didn't want to cab everyone. :(

sounds like a lot of people are going to bed early tonight (last night endd at 2:30) so i might cab out there and go for round 2!



haha so true. already was the case actually. 

the marketing guy who was there with us said he wants to do a scotch tasting with his team next year sometime and asked if i would set up the menu and host it. fuck yes.



God that is the kind of boss I want to have/become.

also what an enormous glass of Oban! 



C&A Steak company. 

never go there. 



Hello internet people,

Today we've got some Taliskers to score in a nice vertical. It's a Taliscore! Let's start with the youngest and work our way up.

Talisker 10 45.8%

Colour: Diageo GoldTM (E150a)

Body: Full

Nose: Woody, quite oily, restrained peat smoke, spice, fruit- artificial lemon, melon, raisin (A little Sherry), vanilla, pine resin, brine, sea spray, seaweed.

Water: Spiced rum soaked dried fruit, fruit cake, raisin, shortbread, cola bottles, chocolate powder, some nut. Tonnes of artificial toffee after a bit.

Taste: Oily texture, fruity- Great oily lemon note, vanilla, building spice- Ginger, nutmeg and black pepper with wisps of smoke, sea salt, seaweed. Lovely balance.

Water: Some chocolate and nut, much more Sherry and raisin.

Finish: Medium/long length. Sea spray leads to the classic cracked black pepper kick.
With water you get some chocolate. 

74/100

Classic.

The mouthfeel and balance really make this. My first ever bottle of peated whisky. This is my second bottle and I'd buy a third (A big deal for me). In my opinion this is the best of any of Diageo's many entry level whiskies (not that I've tried them all).

(Not the last time I'll say this but) In my experience batches vary. In any whisky. Batches of this have reached 76/77 and some have been under 70.

Onwards and upwards:



Come on Diageo, bring out an age stated CS NCF uncoloured epic Talisker. A series of vintage single casks? Really think we have yet to see the best from this distillery.

TWE still stocks some older CS bottlings of 25/27/30/35, but they will cost you an arm and a leg (example).



Scotch noob here, so during the tasting you added water twice?  How much did you add each time?

Thanks!



The 2 waters in my tastings notes are for the Nose and Taste. First water is any changes on the flavours I get from the nose and the second water is any changes in flavour I get from the taste. Rather than adding 2 lots of water.

I tend to add a few drops from a pipette for the Talisker's.



Wow, 50 reviews. Never thought I'd actually hit this milestone. Go me.

After reviewing 3 rare malts, it's probably time to step down from my ivory Scotch tower and go back to some of the regular Scotch/World Whisky samples, and try to mellow out my palate once and for all. Or at least stop being so snobby and picky..

About 6 months ago, my local LCBO had a sale on a bunch of sample 200 ml bottles. And as someone who usually has to pay tons for Beginner/Advanced level Scotch, I started grabbing up bottles like it was going to be outlawed in some type of Teetotaler/Mad Max world.

Let's take a moment to imagine that world. If you made it into a movie, the villains wouldn't swear, drive calmly, and talk softly. The hero is half in the bag most of the time, and can't say a sentence without the word "Fuck-Juggling-Thunder-Fucker".

I'd pay to see that movie. In a VIP theater with a Scotch.

Back to the shopping: It was Christmas, and I deserved gifts, so I bought them (Note: No I didn't deserve them at all).

I've saved the one I know I would enjoy the most for last, while simultaneously reviewing other things and ignoring it like the youngest child who can do no wrong: Talisker 10.

Talisker is known for being the only Scotch distilled on the Isle of Skye. I'm expecting something similar to an Islay, so let's see if I'm right.

Abv: 45.8%

Region: Island (Isle of Skye)

Price: $79.95 (CAD)

Colour: Faint yellow highlighter

Nose: Smoke, salt air, butterscotch, caramel sundae, beernuts, Pinesol, oil, oak, orange zest, smoke meat

Merry Christmas that's good! Why did I wait so long to try this?

This is more salty than a traditional Islay, which is nice. There's even a great woody/caramel mix that is in there.

Taste: Brine, peat, chili flakes, vanilla pudding, dill, lemon, smoke, light cranberry, tarragon, pepper, cocoa, mace

I'm getting more herbs that I originally assumed I'd ever have in a Scotch. It's getting a little bit in the way for me, however this is still nice to sip.

Finish: Light breeze, hay, peat, cloves, mushroom, brown sugar, smoked ribs, bacon, dehydrated apricot

There's the smoke I was looking for, where it belongs. In the finish.

Seriously though, I'm really liking the finish on this. It makes up for the jumble of herbs I found in the taste, and really leaves you with that smoked meat flavour I was looking for.

Conclusion: Talisker 10 is always worth trying. There's no argument there. If it's at a bar, have a glass and enjoy. Goes well with Dessert or with Ribs. That being said, it was a bit too herbal for me, so it loses marks versus Ardbeg 10 though is massively better than Bowmore.

83/100

Review #50



200 ml bottle of Talisker 10.

Though in the past I've inferred that I'm one of the giants at the bottom of the construction pit at the end of the BFG.
