Talisker 57? North; 57.0% ABV

?

I recently purchased a beautiful Talisker sample pack from Master of Malt, which came with fancy packaging and the 10 Yr, Distiller's Edition, and 57? North. My inner Talisker whore is happy.

?

57? North is Talisker's cask strength core expression named for the distillery's latitude. It's the first cask strength Talisker I've tried, so I'm naturally giddy with anticipation.

?

Nose: Coastal sea breeze, light salt, and very light smoke. Light fruits and other sweet tones in the background. Very easy-going, pleasant nose. Not too hot considering the ABV.

?

Palate: Brash, harsh sea salt. The classic Talisker pepper and spice with a bit of earthy peat. Light dried fruit and caramel. Thick and flavorful palate. Very nice.

?

Finish: Tell-tale Talisker finish, but warmer thanks to the high ABV. Spice, pepper, and light smoke linger for a long time.

?

Quite delicious. I still prefer the Distiller's Edition, but this is definitely superior to the 10 year expression. Factoring in price, the 10 yr offers better value, but dram-to-dram this is better.

?

Rating: 87/100



I'm not really a pairing kinda guy, but I read that on the box (I actually went and re-read, it says stunning, not spectacular) so I gave it a go with some stilton that I had and I was not disappointed.

Let me know how it goes.



Talisker 57 North 

$xXx, 57%abv

Another Talisker for a rainy evening.  The Storm was a sun shower with distant thunder, so let?s see if this cartographical expression will go down the right path.  Thank you u/Dirtloves for the sample, very grateful for the opportunity.

Nose: It took a little while to open up, and my initial impressions were ?uninspired and cluttered.?  But as with most whisky, patience is rewarded.  Lemon, Cold sea air, a mild Peat note reads beef Jerky, prominent Cream soda with sweet Oak.  Feint remnants of a Campfire and Nutmeg.  This nose is top notch!

Palate: Black Pepper, Barrel proof rye, Lemon meringue pie (Auchentoshan Valinch?), Iodine.  Powerful even with water.

Finish: Crisp, fresh Habaneros, Tart raspberries, a lot of black Peppery charred wood and that note stays with you? for a while.  I don?t usually like long finishes, but there is something about its character that doesn?t make me reach for my water.

87/100  It?s Talisker turned up with a complex nose.  If you like rye you will thoroughly enjoy this expression.  For me, the palate was a little too ?big.? James Bond would proudly drink this.



Talisker 57? North, 57% ABV

Hat tip to /u/UncleTobys for the sample.

Overall more herbal and peaty than the 10, but also missing the big leather/chili/tobacco flavors that I love in the latter. Probably worth seeking out a taste for Talisker fans, but I'm not in a rush to buy a whole bottle. 80/100.



Hi everyone! Ran across some more lil' 200ml bottles, this time Talsiker Triplets! The Talisker releases other than the 10 are a bit pricey, so this was a good chance to explore their range - I was not disappointed!

P.S I think this puts me over 10 reviews... ;)

Talisker 57? North, 57% ABV

Nose: Buttery with a hint of lemon oil, sea-salt, sea air & iodine. Salted butterscotch.
After water: Salty peat, more pepper, and citrus oil

Palate: Rich sweet maltiness, oats, lemon pepper, heather honey. 
After water: Butterscotch sweetness up front, followed by earthy peatsmoke

Finish: Star anise, pepper, cinnammon, some dry vanilla oak. Pleasant salty smokiness goes on and on.

Overall: Wonderfully thick on the nose, rich and oily on the palate, and a long peppery spiced finish - perfection!

A solid A+!



Great reviews, love to see these all side by side! 

I've read that the 57 North is inconsistent; either wonderful or woeful. Good to see you got lucky with one of the goodies!



Talisker is my wife's favorite dram, thanks for the triple-review!

Hopefully now that WA State's liquor laws have eased up, I'll be able to find the triple-pack here.



Talisker 57? North 

Island, 57% ABV

Nose: Brine, sea salt, leather, herbs, lime, cocoa, pepper, BBQ

Palate: Buttery, pepper, smoked salted meat, thick and oily, oranges, nuts, lemon, caramel

Finish: Lemon, brine, sea salt, chocolate, caramel, peppers, leafy

87/100. Classic Talisker. Sweet, salty and briny all in one. Stronger than most of their offerings but still ridiculously smooth. They can do no wrong as far as I'm concerned - would put this right up against the 10.



Hello Scotchit.  I?m here with my late homework of past reviews.  Below are 3 Taliskers reviewed from 5 Cl samples from finedrams.com.  Each Talisker sample was split into 2 sittings and sampled in a Glencairn neat. 

Cheers Scotchit!



This is a NAS version of Talisker that is bottled at "cask strength" or so.
57% vol that is anyways.

Nose: Peat, some smoke, vanilla, grassy, lemon candy, light dry edge, with water a bit rubber

Mouth: Honey, peat, light smoke

Finish: Lemon, honey, pepper, peat and a bit smoke (which keep lingering for a while)

Comments: Very Talisker typical profile. I think I prefer it to the 10 but it's been a while that I tasted that one.

87 points - price, value, etc not a factor



Talisker 57o North / 57% ABV / 70cl

Tasted with a nip of bottled water

Talisker is the first scotch that got me into whisky, the amazing 10 year old, and I am a massive fan of the beautifully sherried and peppered distiller's edition.  So what I'm looking for in a 

Tallie is quite simple: peat and pepper--will we get it?  This is a NAS release from "specially selected casks", but it's cask strength, which is an added bonus.

57o north refers to the location of Talisker on the Isle of Skye.  The bottle imprint notes "LAT 57o 17' .9N, LONG 06o 21' .5W."

Not what you'd typically expect from a Talisker; it lacks the bite of the 10 and 25 year editions, and is overly rounded and generic.  No pepper, which is a big disappointment for me.

Rating: 69/100

81st review



cloying alcoholic ketoacidosis

que?



Mystery 10

Nose: Somewhat peaty, but otherwise quite mild and flat, despite the sharp bite. Bitter oak and peppercorns.

Palate: Full-bodied, a hint of sweet vanilla bean attempts (in vain) to round off the increasing smokey peat. Kiwi and passionfruit emerge over time. 

Finish: Finish leans towards the shorter side of medium. Very dry, still peaty, and with some subtle honey as it starts to fall away.

Tasty. Some nice complexity can be found the longer you spend time with it, however the nose and finish are lacking.

83/100



Talisker 57? North, 57% ABV

I'm sleepy... I'll tell you the last one tomorrow.



Talisker 57? north

Thanks to u/muaddib99 for the swap

Colour: reddish gold.

Nose: smoke, peat, honey, brine, heather, bourbon, vanilla, pepper, distant fruit, citrus.

Palate: smoke, peat, bourbon, honey, cinnamon, clove, cardimum, salt, pinch of iodine.

Finish: lemon, smoke, peat, citrus, honey, brine. Vanilla and toffee. Long finish. 

Kind of boring, but still quite good. Not very complex, guessing exclusively bourbon matured. The 10 year old certainly offers more flavour wise but this is a solid, young, strong, peated island whisky.

abv is a punchy 57%

85/100.

Talisker 10 - 85/100 

Talisker 18 - 90/100 

Talisker Distiller's Edition 1992 - 90/100 
