ABV: 45.8%

Price: $73

Distiller: Talisker

"An expression as unique as the dramatic terrain of the island from where it hails"

Eye: 
Gold with caramel hints

Nose:
A velvet smokiness comes first followed by an amazingly inviting combination of tropical citrus, honey, caramel, vanilla, butterscotch pudding, saltwater taffy and a touch of brine.

Taste:
What can I say other than wow. Smoky caramel, orange zest, vanilla cake, Werther's Original, smoked ham, malt, smoked paprika and a host of other fantastic savory notes. There is a buttery quality to it that is as pleasant as can be.

Feel:
Silken like melted caramel with nearly no burn

Finish:
The peat seems to kick up a bit in the aftertaste but gives way to a nice smoky grain and wood for a medium finish.

Score:
91/100

Overall: 
It's well balanced with all of the flavors and components moving side by side in a symphony of aromas and flavors. For the sake of my bank account I wish it was a bit cheaper, but on a value scale I think it?s completely worth the price. The label may be missing how many times the world went around the sun since it was distilled, but it tastes good and has the maturity, balance and restraint that I look for in a good whisky and in the end that?s all that matters.



I sent out a bunch of mystery samples recently, expecting to see the posts coming today.  In the return packages, I received two (thus far)  Posting those here for your enjoyment!  

First up is from /u/mentel42, purveyor of fine bourbon biscuits.

Initial Impressions: Blended scotch ala Johnnie Walker

Nose: apples or pears in grain, but I think that's malt grain and this is no blend. Decent alcohol burn; I suspect medium/high ABV. A small hint, maybe, of ocean brine and the smallest amount of smoke. Very minimal sweetness, but no sour or bitter notes either. A touch of oak, vanilla, green field grass, and cinnamon, but really the first sentence is by far the overriding sense of the nose on this one.

Mouthfeel: dry, but smooth entry and nicely coating the tongue. Neither thick nor thin.

Taste: dry oak, apples and/or pears, and decidedly smoky with reference to the nose. Not Islay smoky, not quite, and no medicine or peat, just... Smoke. Midway through, some sugary sweetness begins to appear. 

Finish: medium short on the burn, and surprisingly only a little aftertaste. Some of that fruit is here, but for the first time in this dram there's a slightly bitter note. Oak and smoke are present too.

I like this, I like it a lot. The smoke component is similar to my beloved Lagavulin, but it's got the Speyside apple/pear thing going on too. Balance is great, there's a few layers of complexity, and there's some sweet notes and some bitter notes, but neither side is too much. Just really nice all around. Almost an A+

Score: 96.4/100

I started my hunt for guess candidates in Campbeltown - Glen Scotia, Kilkerran, and Springbank based on prior experience with the Kilkerran work in progress. Nothing, though, is quite right. A search in /r/scotch for Islay apples and pears lead me to /u/msheinberg's review of Talisker 25. From there I meandered through reviews of a bunch of Talisker offerings because it's hard for me to believe that a 25 year old would be sent as a mystery. Storm is the next closest, but not close enough:

Official Guess: Talisker 25

I can't believe I just said that.

The Reveal: Talisker Storm

That's as close as I have ever come to the elusive bullseye. I do feel somewhat glad though that it wasn't such a crazy expensive sample in the mystery bottle.

Would I buy it again? Yes, already had planned to before this, and now definitely want to. This bottle costs $64.99 here. Just need to finish off a few bottles first as I am basically out of box space. Actually, I am sorely tempted to buy a flight of the 4 Talisker bottles available to me: 10, Storm, DE, and 25. How much would you pay for the 25 where you are?



hey, I just did 17 or whatever it was in a row for Christmas.  I just want to have one where I hit that bullseye, just so I can say I did it.  Even better if it's unknown scotch vs. bourbon.

I guess the only way is to keep trying, right?



Nice review!

Teach me your ways, almighty photoshop wizard! 



Talisker is a distillery that I didn't like much at first due to my initial aversion to peat, but after expanding my palate and growing to appreciate lightly peated malts I revisited the Talisker 10 and quite enjoyed it. Some time later I found the Talisker Storm on sale for $40 and figured it was worth investing in a bottle of Talisker. I then found a sampler pack with 200mL bottles of the 10, 2013 Distiller's Edition, and 57? North, the lattermost which isn't sold in the USA outside of this sampler set. 

I tasted these blind and threw in my Peated Arran and what remained of my sample of Longrow 10 just to make things a bit more challenging, but the two non-Taliskers gave themselves away from their lighter color. I didn't include my notes from those two since I've already reviewed them, so review_bot can direct you to those if you're interested. I was pleased that I identified each Talisker correctly. Here's how they stack up!

Talisker 57? North

Strength: 57%

Color: Golden brown. 

Nose: Marshmallow and soft brine. Citrusy too. 

Palate: Sweet malty character. A little bit of salt as sweet peat begins to emerge. The peat really takes some coaxing out. 

Finish: Sweet, smoky, and a little oaky. Balanced, complex, and unique. 

Summary: Quite a nice dram. It mixes sweet malt and peat together beautifully, and the big bump in proof is quite welcomed. It's a shame this isn't sold in 750mL bottles in the USA. 

Score: 90/100 




/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Arran reviews in /r/scotch:

/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Longrow reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Greetings Scotchit! I'll post another review because I'm bored. This was a bottle that I tacked on to an auction, because the price was right. It was also one of the last Taliskers I hadn't tried yet, and as a fan of Talisker's core range (10 and 18), I was hoping this was good.

I'd read elsewhere (K&L, I believe), that this was less peaty, but I wanted to try it myself. I largely came to the same conclusion.

Talisker Storm
Island, 45.8% ABV, chill-filtered, E150 up the wazoo, ?40 for 700ml

Nose: Strong brine. Light smoke. Sweet fruits (red apples and pineapple). Oaky spices (cardamom? cinnamon?). Freshly squeezed apple juice. Honey or syrup. Slight burn. Orange marmalade and raspberries.

Very fruity, actually. The peat really isn't that forward, it's more about the fruits here. I'd say this is closest to something like an Old Pulteney rather than a Talisker. My brain keeps reaching for the word "crystallized", but I'm not sure in what respect - I think it means one of these hard raspberry candies. 

However, none of this is a bad thing - it's kind of interesting to get this profile from a Talisker, and this is quite well executed if you don't come in expecting a storm of peat, pepper and salt as you would from the 10. 

Taste: Hot and tingly mouthfeel. More brine, more smoke. Leather. Golden apples and marmalade. Raspberries and fresh oranges. Lots of oak. White pepper and cinnamon. A hint of bitter astringency. Orange pith?

This is really odd - there's that Talisker salt and smoke, and it's oaky in a very pronounced way, but there's those fruits skirting around the edges. And throughout, it's got a really strange mouthfeel - almost acidic, like eating orange peel pop rocks. It's strange, but not entirely unpleasant.

Finish: Medium length. Brine and smoky. Slight bitter oak lingers. Apple peels. Dark caramel. 

Pretty similar to the palate here. Decent, but nothing special. 

Summary: The nose is the most interesting part of this - I kind of like it, with all its fruity notes among the brine and smoke. The palate is just kind of weirdly astringent and bitter, and I don't really like it. 

Worth trying, though, because I like the 10. But it's not a storm, and I feel pretty certain that this is the weakest of the Talisker offerings. Even the Dark Storm had more going for it in terms of drinkability. 

As for the name, I guess marketing just kind of got the idea of calling it "Storm" and ran with it without tasting it. Good job, Diageo marketing. 

Score: 78/100
Alternative names: Talisker Storm in a Teacup. Talisker Stiff Breeze.

Previous Talisker reviews:

Talisker 10 - 88/100

Talisker 18 - 91/100

Talisker Distiller's Edition - 89/100

Talisker 57' North - 92/100

Talisker Port Ruighe - 89/100

Talisker Dark Storm - 80/100



Talisker Slight Drizzle

Gotta agree! Bought it on a whim, because in was 40% off.. Also about 40% below the value of the 10.. (well, that might be a stretch)



Thanks to /u/Dyllix for the sample!  Talisker Storm is a NAS expression that is supposedly more "intense" than their 10 year.  Bottled at 45.8% ABV.

?

Nose:  Nice peat.  Definitely comes on stronger than the 10 on the nose.  Some sea salt, plums, and strawberry as well.

Palate:  Medium to light weight.  Fresh red berries.  A bit of lemon.  Some harshness though as well.

Finish:  Medium finish.  The peat takes over pretty quickly.  Sea salt and peat smoke.

Score: 85/100

?

Tastes like a younger Talisker to me.  I like it, but not as much as the 10 year.  I feel like the Talisker 10 does what it does really well (a bad ass perfectly balanced daily drinker).  And if I want more peat or more spice or more earth or more whatever, there are other options out there that are better (Ardbeg, Octomore, Lagavulin, etc).  This kicks the good things up a notch, but also the flaws.

/u/review_bot 'Talisker'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Talisker:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



Oh, hi! I like Talisker, so I didn't hesitate when I saw this one in the shop:

Talisker Storm

Islands, 45.8%

color: gold

nose: campfire smoke, salty and spicy, leather, cherry stones, redcurrants, oak

taste: campfire smoke, sweet, mocha chocolate, hazelnuts, oak, tobacco, caramel, blackberries

finish: long, peppery and a bit dry, smoke, kiwi

Not very complex. I was surprised about the rather soft arrival compared to the 10 yo standard bottling; pepper comes through not until the finish. More a Talisker Tamed than Talisker Storm.

83/100



Last night I went with a friend to a Talisker tasting. I've been to one before, but I didn't take notes for everything, and I really like Talisker, so glad to go again. This was put on by Diageo's importer here as they're expanding the range of Taliskers here (up until now was just the 10yo and Storm). 

The lineup was the 10yo, Storm, 2014 DE, 18yo, 57 North and the 25yo. I've already put notes here for some so the ones listed here are the ones I haven't.

Talisker Storm

Aged 3 years, 45.8%

Nose: New make. Charred wood. Smoked fish. Vanilla custard. Banana. Brine. Honey. 

Palate: Hot. Pepper. Mineral salt. Wet wood. Burned fruit. 

Finish: Medium-long. Dry wood. Lots of salt. Light smoke. 

Talisker 2014 Distiller's Edition

Aged 10 and a bit years, 45.8% ABV, Finished in Amoroso Casks

Nose: Very sweet. Vanilla cream. Banana liquor. Red fruits. Roasted something sweet. Thick wine tannins. Turkish delight.

Palate: A bit flat. Charcoal. Salmon. Salt. Dry wood. Sherry funk. 

Finish: Medium. Dry wood. Char. Cough syrup. Figs.

So, this is my first Talisker review since, well, my first review here (Talisker 18). Talisker is the only distillery on the Isle of Skye. The label says this one has a ?profoundly maritime character, like a warm welcome from a wild Hebridean sea?. How poetic. This was also Whisky Advocate?s 2013 Highland/Islands Malt of the Year.

45.8%, like almost all Talisker OB?s. No Age Statement. No statement about caramel coloring, but it looks like it?s there (fake tan color, plus it?s from our overlords at Diageo).

Nose - Salted synthetic caramels (think Brach?s caramels, but with salt), black pepper, a bit of smoke, seawater, oysters, green olives, honey, and vanilla. Classic Talisker combination of smoke/spice/sweet/sea saltiness, though the smoke seems toned down a bit from what I remember from other Taliskers.

Taste - Honey, vanilla, salted caramels, the ocean, black pepper, with a bit of limey tanginess coming in on the development. Medium body. Less herbal and vegetal than most Taliskers I?ve had. There?s something that seems somewhat young and spirity here, though.

Finish - Black pepper lingers mid-palate, with  honey, citrus and vanilla. The sea-salty, citrusy pepperiness on the finish is really nice.

I like this. The sweet and ocean-y elements working together make this kind of like a very slightly poorer mans Laddie 10. This might have a bit more complexity than the Laddie, but the flavor lacks some depth and power. There?s a youthfulness on the palate that detracts slightly, but it is very nicely balanced overall, with an exceptional finish.

87/100

Edited for spelling.



Nice review! A store I frequent had a 24 hour sale where this was 40% off. Even though I hadn't tried it before, I couldn't pass it up for $40. I'm really enjoying it!

I completely agree that it reminds me of the Laddie Ten. 



Hello internet people,

Today we've got some Taliskers to score in a nice vertical. It's a Taliscore! Let's start with the youngest and work our way up.

Talisker Storm 45.8%

Colour: Diageo GoldTM (E150a)

Body: Full

Nose: Light fruit esters- Pear drops, green apple, lemon citrus and earthy smoke. Artificial toffee and vanilla.

Water: More smoke and earth, ash and embers.

Taste: Sharp arrival, lots of sour lemon and green apple, young peat smoke, quite earthy with sea salt and black pepper developing (A little harsh).

Water: Less sharp, more fruity and creamy with a little banana but the developing spice is a bit harsher. 

Finish: Medium length. A earthy hit then pepper and salt.

69/100

Quite young, you can really tell. I'd much rather have the 10yo any day of any week. Speaking of...


Come on Diageo, bring out an age stated CS NCF uncoloured epic Talisker. A series of vintage single casks? Really think we have yet to see the best from this distillery.

TWE still stocks some older CS bottlings of 25/27/30/35, but they will cost you an arm and a leg (example).



Scotch noob here, so during the tasting you added water twice?  How much did you add each time?

Thanks!



The 2 waters in my tastings notes are for the Nose and Taste. First water is any changes on the flavours I get from the nose and the second water is any changes in flavour I get from the taste. Rather than adding 2 lots of water.

I tend to add a few drops from a pipette for the Talisker's.



Finally getting to some Fine Drams supplies. Support your not so local supplier kids.

Storms are a big deal. I don't care if you're 1 or 21... well, maybe I do, because if you're 1, and you're reading this, then that's both an odd choice because you can't drink yet and also you're reading...

Anyway, moving on...

Storms are huge, no matter who you are. I remember being a kid and watching a small sapling pine tree be struck by lightning, right in front of me. I remember pieces of a Hurricane flying through Montreal suburbs, dumping rain for 1 minute and then leaving sunshine in it's wake. 

A tropical storm once engulfed our rental home in Florida, leaving us to explore it. An Ice Storm shook the world to it's knees and froze it in place for 2 weeks, leading us to friend's homes to make merry in what little power they had to share.

A sudden hurricane spun up out of a storm while I was on a 100+ year old boat. I'd be dead if I was the one running it. Luckily a smarter and better captain was in charge, and I was just a waiter.

Talisker Storm is a NAS whisky that promises to be "more smokey and intense" than Talisker's other offerings. It's named after storms, which is a tall order.

We've all seen storms. Universal fear and respect is something that all humans have for storms. So they are ponying up quite a bit  for me to try this. Will it be as big as lightning, rain, thunder, wind, ice, and snow?

Or will this be the slight downy snow that shuts down cities that aren't ready for it?

Let's see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: $90.00 (CAD) at the LCBO

Region: Island

Abv: 45.8%

Colour: 7.5YR 6/8

Nose: Peat, brine, cream, lemon, pear, nuts

There's a good amount of peat and brine in this. Reminds me of the 10, however with some more peat and brine. What I'm saying is it's unbalanced in the wind department.

Nice to nose though.

Taste: Pepper, smoke, cream, cocoa, lemon

Simple flavours. The earth notes are sweeter than I remember. There's a nice amount of smoke.

Simeple though. Like "Just some snow" simple. So I guess this is like cleaning off the driveway for Scotches.

Finish: Pepper, bacon, brine, butterscotch, metal

More smoke, more brine, yet evolved a little bit to have this bacony flavour that I usually only have when we buy the pricey bacon by mistake, and only fry up if the weather is so rough that no one is going anywhere.

There's a little bit of metallic taste. While it makes sense (what's more metal than Storms?), I have to say I'm not the biggest fan here. Sticks out too much.

Conclusion: Good, no great. Worth buying over the 10? Not really. I really get the feeling that they released a younger batch that is still unbalanced and said it was "more intense" to try and turn it around.

There's better Taliskers. It's not bad; heck, I'd keep it around to sip on if it was cheaper. It's just not great.

This storm has been downgraded to a sad rain cloud, unfortunately.

78/100

Scotch review #358, Island review #33, Whisky Network Review #545

Other Talisker Reviews:

Talisker 10

Talisker 18

Talisker 25 (2011 Release)

Talisker 30 (2011 release)

Talisker 57? North

Talisker Distiller's Edition 2012

Talisker Port Ruighe

Website of all of my Reviews



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.74   

Standard Deviation = 9.97   

Skewness = -2.71313 

Kurtosis = 11.19103 

Median = 80 

IQR = 9
