Review #40: Talisker 18

?7.50 for 6cl.

ABV 45.8%. NCF, I think.

Colour: It?s whisky.

Nose: Smoke and brine. Coffee and cacao, mocha. Pepper and salty seawater. In the back some citrus fruits linger.

Awesome! My first bottle was a bottle of Talisker 10, this is really a step up from that. Smells less raw and more refined, more chocolatey.

Palate: Medium body. Smoke and brine obviously. Pecan pie, black cherries, chocolate, salty seawater and red peppers.

This would make an AWESOME steaksauce. 

Finish: Long and warming. Nice Talisker smoke lingers as well as the cherries and chocolate. 

Overall: Excellent whisky. This might be my next purchase once the nation wide chain has its sale again (this time I got both the HP18 and Bunnahabhain 18). It?s very good and I would definitely recommend it. It?s less offensive than the 10, but it makes up for it in complexity and texture

Rating: 91/100. Would recommend. Will buy a bottle 6 months from now.



Talisker 18 - 45.8% - Island - $80-150

Nose: Sweet woodiness. The oak is strong and I like it. There's a smokiness here too, but it's less campfire and more fireplace. Salt, pine nut, fruit by the sea. A bit of oak funk. Cherries. Old ships. Apples, burnt raisins, nectarines, brown sugar, plantains. Soy sauce, fish oil, salmon. Mellow peat. Nice.

Taste: Briney, sweet, soft peat. Oak. More oak. Croissant. Pepper gives it a nice kick. Caramel, sultry vanilla. Orange marmalade. Some more peat. Soft, delicate smoke. Earth.

Finish: Long and gentle finish. Great interplay between the wood, salt, and peat. Pepper. Seaweed. Concrete, iodine, fresh fish. Redwood (I'm having flashbacks to a summer when I built a guitar body from redwood). Beautiful cask-driven ending to an already lovely finish.

This is a focused and balanced gentle giant. On three separate occasions Talisker 10 didn't do it for me, it's too harsh for my liking, too immature. But the 18 is where it's at. The same general flavor profile as the 10, but mature, sultry, and balanced. Talisker 18 is a benchmark scotch for me. It's also a great go-to when you're not in the mood for a peat bomb but you still want some tasty peat and smoke.

45.8% is a respectable strength, but I bet this would be my perfect scotch if it were 50%+. One can dream.

I'm lucky that a local shop still sells this for the pre-price-hike price. I've stocked up. At $80-100 this is a no brainer, but beyond that price it's harder to say. I'd go for Bunna 18 for $110 over Talisker 18 for $140. But that's neither here nor there..

92/100



Great notes, especially croissant and marmalade. Sounds like there are several facets to this Talisker besides the peppery peat trademark.

Cheers!



45.8% is a respectable strength, but I bet this would be my perfect scotch if it were 50%+. One can dream.

Try the Talisker 57? North, which is... (you guessed it) 57%. This is my benchmark Scotch now. (I like gentle peat, not full on Laphroaig blast.)



"Angel tears rolling down your tongue.."
-my Dad

At the moment, this is the best whiskey i've tasted.



Hi all, I saw a Talisker vertical from /u/Dukedesu and thought I'd join in the fun! Talisker is a favourite amongst malt mates for sure, but reviews of the older stuff is hard to come by. So here we go!

Talisker 18, 45.8% ABV

Nose: Pepper, some brine and sweet heather, dried mango and pineapple also maybe? A bit of farmyardy smell, but not in a rough, immature sense.

Palate: Quite subtle, sweet and then dry in the arrival with oak and brine/coalsmoke. In the middle more volcanic/coalsmoke, then sweet again with toffee, grass and some fruit also.

Finish: Becomes peppery and dry, Not particularly long

Overall: Much more "Talisker" than the 25, has a great balance between the aged character and the raw salty/smokiness of the Talisker spirit. 

A This is a top notch Talisker, I recommend everyone to give it a try. The spirit really benefits from age. it is very smooth, drinkable and complex. However recent price increases are worrying me!




Thanks for the heads up! These are excellent reviews, for sure!

I'm delighted to see that you also had many parallel thoughts regarding the 18 and 25 years. I also thought it was interesting to see the drop in ABV from 57.2% to 54.8% from the 2005 to the 2009 releases. Additionally, is there a specific reason for the decreased bottle amounts?



Thanks!

About the ABV difference, I think they just vat the casks they have picked and release it at that strength without adding any water, so it's not unusual for the ABV to change between years.

No idea about the # of bottles released, maybe to do with stock? They did start releasing the 30 year from 2006 so perhaps they kept more back for older releases?



I was able to acquire this bottle with the help of /u/brettrick over at /r/scotchswap. Thanks again for the hospitality sir, much appreciated! This is a hard one to get a handle on and I'm glad I was able to pin a bottle down before the price hike they did earlier this year.

Talisker 18 Island Single Malt - ABV 45.8%  

Savored Neat  

Color: Golden Honey

Nose: Diminished peat, saltwater soaked oak wood, wisps of smokey iodine, dry spices, sweet toffee, faint fruits, cinnamon pears, crisp, fresh, bright. Excellent nose on this, some very subtle flavors. The explosion you get in the 10 has been tamed in this 18.

Taste: Deliciously sweet & spiced toffee, thickens and warms to a nice tingle on the palate, savory peat comes in very gently, moving to a slight black pepper and then turns to a succulent syrupy nutmeg. Great palate here, robust, simply complex and consistent.

Finish: Wisps of peat and smoke, nice comfortable tingle, dry oak, exotic spices, a little peppery and warm, very smooth, finish is medium-long and powerful. A great finish to a very nice quality single malt.

Summary
This is a really nice Island Single Malt and I've thoroughly enjoyed it so far. If you've had the 10 the way I would describe the 18 is that it's just a bit more tamed and smooth compared to the 10 which is explosive and punchy. I've heard from a friend that most of the Talisker 18 that gets produced goes into adding subtle flavors to Johnnie Walker Blue. This seems like a waste of Talisker 18 to me.

If you can find this one under $100 I'd say it's worth a purchase if you're already a fan of the 10 year old. Delicious stuff. If you're curious I rated the Talisker 10 a 92/100. This one only gets one mark higher from me due to excellent nose and finish on this, I feel the extra time in the barrel compliments the Talisker spirit nicely.

On a side note, a local friend of mine has been drinking Scotch for 10+ years and this one is his favorite. He and his Fianc? are heading over to Isle of Skye this year to get married. I anticipate a trip to the distillery will be along the way during their honey moon. 

Score  

93/100  



Same here! I probably won't pickup another bottle of Talisker 18. I love the punch of the 10 as well and would rather have two bottles of 10 than one bottle of 18 at the current price ($120)

If you're a die hard Talisker fan definitely don't sleep on the 18 though. If you want to just try it this place sells 200ml's for $30



Talisker 18

Island, 45.8% ABV

Nose: Peat, floral and perfume, cinnamon, nutmeg, red fruit, sherry, leather, lemon, vanilla frosting, sea salt, oak. Delightful

Palate: Hot, oak, pepper, peat, coffee, cinnamon, nutmeg, spices, salted caramel, honey, vanilla, almonds

Finish: Long, pepper, oak, smoke, vanilla

89/100. Another that's good overall but not quite as much as I had hoped. I'd put both of these just above the 10, and by barely any margin. Soft and mature even with the hot spices, it's worth the try but not worth breaking the bank for. What it displays in maturity it pays for by lacking a bit of that Talisker charm - the typical brine, peat, butter, fruits and sherry. Still damn good.



Review #55: Talisker 18

Price: $90 (I split with vx2 though)

ABV: 45.8%

Color: amber

Nose: peat, smoke, sea air, iodine, hint of chocolate, citrus, band-aid 

The peat, smoke and sea air are very noticeable. The scent isn't as strong as Laphroaig's or Lagavulin's though. And finally, I have smelled the band-aid smell.

Taste: peat, smoke, light fruits, hint of salt, hint of toffee, coffee, sweet, hint of chocolate

The more gentle mix of peat, smoke and salty note mix made sort of a chocolate and toffee taste. Yum. If any of you have had a cocktail called Meat hook, it reminds me of that. 

Finish: peat, chocolate, toffee, sweet

Score: 88

Conclusion: The Talisker 12 was a disappointment. For a scotch at it's price tag I wish I could have just bought the Arran 12 CS or the Springbank 12 CS. But knowing it was a limited one, I fell for the trap and grabbed it. Sigh. I favor the Talisker 10 over the 12. It's just so lacking. THe Talisker 18 was a good one though. I like how the calmer peat, smoke and salt mixed up to make a chocolate and toffee note. The nose is disappointing though. If you're one to prefer a livelier whisky, you're going to like the Talisker 10 better. If you like calm and gentle notes, you're going to like Talisker 18 better. As for me... I'm torn. 



Picked up this cute lil set of 200mls at Warehouse in Manhattan. 45.8% ABV each.

18 years

My favorite. Doesn't quite crack its way into being a grade-A Scotch for me but damn close, damn close. Seems like something that would please beginners and hardcore malt maniacs alike. 89/100



Greetings, r/scotch! Got this as a sample in a swap with /u/Trexid nearly--I don't even know--3 or 4 months ago or something? It's been sitting on the back burner for so long and I'm only now getting to it . . . . 

Talisker 18, Island Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 45.8% abv; $159.99 for a 750mL bottle locally; enjoyed a neat dram

Atmosphere: Enjoying my friends' band, Great Deceivers', album from a few years ago (Seasons In Reverse). Also, it's finally somewhat cold here in Florida! Key word: somewhat. But gotta take advantage of this and drink out on the porch!

Color: Liquid honey comb

Nosing: Carbonated bacon-flavored water, tea tree oil, aloe vera gel, orange rind, spicy pears, crushed red pepper, mellow peat

Tasting: Sea salt and black pepper. A viscous mouthfeel with a rich briny toffee bites flavor, spicy peat, nutmeg, white wine

Finish: Medium and warming, peat, salt and smoke

Score: 90/100

Good, but not terribly better than Talisker 10 and no where even near worth that absurd $160 price tag. Good God. Thanks for the dram, Trex! It's worth trying, but buyer beware. 

Related Reviews

Scotch whisky review #72

Whisky reviews #98



Good, but not terribly better than Talisker 10

this is my TL;DR as well



I agree - its not worth the $150+ price tag. Having said that, it's a damn good whisky (one of my current favorites). As has been said in this thread, it's like the 10 but smoother. I felt this was more complex, and awarded it a whopping 4 points more than the 10. As I rated it a 94 - a score that, for me, dictates I buy a full bottle, I bought a full 750ml bottle at a store I managed to find that still carried this bottle under $100!

This will sit unopened in my cabinet for a while, because I doubt I'll be up to dropping $160 on this anytime in the future. I just have to wait for the right occasion to open it!



Agreed. It's an improvement, but it's not enough of an improvement over the 10. 

I'd say the Laphroaig 10 and 18 share the same property, but there you could potentially not feel too bad about spending a little extra to get the 18. 



Alright folks, sorry for the unrelenting spam tonight. These two reviews make numbers 59 and 60 for me! I previously reviewed the Talisker 2012 Distillers Edition and here I've got the 18 and 25 year offerings. Here is what I found:

Talisker 18, 46% ABV, Island

Nose: Raw, earthy peat. Lemon rind, pinesol. Dusty brine and kipper oil.

Palate: Smoke, sea salt mist. Forest fire. Peppery zinfandel. Mellow oak. Hickory smoked chicken skin. Very mellow

Finish: Cigar and hickory ash. Dusty leather and stale sultanas. Carries on, like a wood burning stove laboring on through the winter night.

92/100

Talisker 18  

I feel like I should have tried this one a long time ago, but I only got around to it recently. I've heard good things, let's dive in.  

45.8% ABV, ~$150.  

Color: sienna.  

Nose: light and woody... Oak, pine, and peanut shells.  

Taste: smooth & sweet... Honey, malt, Worthers, and a slight copper taste.  

Finish: bitter oak & light smoke... Brine, dry oak and maple, lacquer, dark chocolate, and very wispy light smoke.  

Conclusions: Much like the 175th Anniversary there is not enough of the Talisker character here. Less smoke and more bitter lacquer-like oak going on -- unlike the Talisker 30 somehow. I wouldn't have guessed this was from Skye if I tried it blind; however, I will say it's still a quality and very tasty malt. 89/100  

