Tobermory 10 island single malt, 46.3% abv, ~$45 online, ncf (I believe)

As some of you may have read, rockindaddy and I hung out a few weeks ago- we drank some and swapped some. This is one of those swaps, so thank you very much rockindaddy for the opportunity to give this dram a run.

Review:

Total: 81/100 

Fluff: 

It has an interesting salty/sweet thing going for it and although it's "unpeated" there is a peat character to it. If I had to relate it to another Scotch, I'd say it's the cousin of Springbank 10 (which I find better). I also have a bottle of Ledaig 10 NCF(1) on hand, which I'd probably rate a few points higher. They're different enough, but I find the explicit peat influence to add a little something extra to it (although, it's worth noting the Ledaig 10 has an artificial/plastic note in my estimation- which doesn't necessarily put me off). A good dram, I'm happy I was able to get it in a swap rather than buying an entire bottle.

(1) For those of you that don't know, they're distilled at the same place.



Nice review!

I'm a fan of Tobermory/Ledaig whisky. Looking forward to your Ledaig review. 



I ranked it about the same.  I actually like it better than the more expensive Ledaig.  

The Ledaig I tried had a very unusual finish.



Rearranging "Definitely smells a bit like sex. Bit of liquorice, the salty, Danish kind. Haribo Gummy bears" and adding a preposition gets you:  

Liquorice definitely smells a bit like the salty, Danish kind of sex with gummy bears. Haribo!



Thanks, man, if I'm ever across the pond, for sure!  

Have you had any Ledaigs? If Tobermory is a butthole, Ledaig is the fart coming out of it. But in a good way (?)



I hope you'll like them. I love, love, love a sherried Blackadder I have, though Serge Valentin didn't respond in quite the same way (it's the Rivertown cask in this post):  

http://www.whiskyfun.com/archivejanuary13-2.html#170113



Hullo chaps!
Welcome to my 29th whisky review (give me that fucking 20-tartan already) where I'll be taking a look at some Island-whisky. On the Isle of Mull, the major town is called Tobermory, so it is only suitable for the distillery there to bear that name. So it does. Tobermory. They also make the peated Ledaig, should anyone be confused. Tobermory 10 has famously been named butthole whisky, which I kinda understand, I get. Or whatever. Sk?l!

Nose:
Immediately it reminds me a bit of a Speysider. It has that orchard-fruit thing going on, but then some salt pops by. And sex. Definitely smells a bit like sex. Bit of liquorice, the salty, Danish kind. Haribo Gummy bears.
This disappointed me a bit when I had the first glass. On the second, I really liked it, and on the third I thought it was Glenfiddich. Weird.

Taste:
Yum! Straight up fruity, with pears, apples, a bit of vanilla, apricot, sour candies, orange juice, and salt. Freshly cut grass. A bit of a maritime tang. Vomit, but not beer vomit. Vomit after getting shitfaced on good liquor, and only that. Uncomfortably pleasant.
Fucking A. That maritime tang reminds me a bit of Talisker 10, but without the smoke and peat. Decent mouthfeel, that is very, uhm, smooth for a 10-y/o.

Finish:
A nice and warming finish, that really makes the maritime qualities stand out. There are some notes of boiled fruits that I can't really make out, but they're there. Candied orange peel. Some bitter chocolaty notes.

Thoughts:
This really is something. I wish I had a bottle to play around with, but I also don't want to buy one. The quality is undeniable, and it is fairly complex, but it is not very new to me. I recognise most notes already, but I like them. I am very convinced that the casks used for this have primarily been first- or second fill, as the bourbon influence is very prominent, but without spoiling anything. Try this.

Cheers for popping by!



Tobermory 10 46.3% ABV

82/100



I went into my shop looking for Laddie 10. The clerk explained that it was discontinued and directed me towards an alternative, a sample of:

Tobermory 10

Region: Island

ABV: 46.3% (92.6?)

Price: n/a (mini)

Poured: Neat

Nose: Lots of malt, alcohol. Not getting a lot more. Transfer to glencairn... slightly floral & tropical fruity, touch of peat

Mouthfeel: Medium/thin

Palate:  Sour, sweet malt, bitter vegetables, floral, spicy, nutty. Medium finish with the same flavors as the nose. Wisps of peat

Rating: 78/100

Not particularly impressed. In no way is this a replacement for The Laddie. Kind of sour throughout and you really have to dig deep to get to the yummy complexity.



Hello Scotchit!  Don't you love when you travel and you hit a liquor store to get a deal or fiind?  Well, I found mine traveling for the Holidays. I picked up Tobermory 10 for $29.99, $20 less then anything near me.

Tobermory 10 is bloody good.  It will be great sipping on hot summer nights.  It reminds me of another one of my favorites AnCnoc 12, but a hair more complex.  They both are malty sweet, have character, and taste fantastic.  If you like malty sweet drams I can highly recommend this.



Let me challenge you to this.  Taste Tobermory 10 in a side by side tasting next to a Glennfiddich or Glenlivet.  I think you may be surprised how much better and more complex it actually is. 

I think it is hard for all of us to remember all of whisky we have tasted and our taste memories get distorted over time.  I believe it is essential that revisiting some of the past drams for a refresher is now essential for me.  It was a real eye opener for me going back and re-reviewing Talisker 10 and Lagavulin 16 side by side.  I completely held back my Lagavulin score trying compare/remember my Talisker tasting for example.  Plus, I may have been holding Talisker high on a pedestal as it was my 1st peated dram. But, tasting them side by side was a real eye opener.  The Lagavulin is just far superior IMHO.  Finally, I can't imagine sampling over 100 whiskies like yourself and remember every taste I ever had.  Yeah, we have our notes.   But, our tastes/notes change overtime as well get more experience.  Now, this may all mean nothing if you already do this...



Yep ... I'd agree with you on this being a far more complex whisky than Glenlivet / Glenfiddich.  I'd rate those at about an 80 and I gave the Tobermory an 89.

I'd rank this up there with one of the Island whiskies I really like, although I'd give Talisker the edge over the Tobermory.  I like Talisker!



This is the new'ish version of the the Tobemory 10, it comes unchillfiltred and at 46.3% vol.  Ledaig is the peated version of the Tobemory and the new Ledaig 10 is rather good. So let's see what the unpeated one offers.

Nose: Vanilla, pears, honey, grains, slightly mineral, a bit earthy and rough

Mouth: Some light peat and a hint of smoke, fairly rich, some honey

Finish: Honey, quite long and warm, a bit peat again, a tad oak and spices

Comments: This is very solid and robust. Surprisingly rich. A good whisky for a fair price, recommended.

82 points



Here are the notes from the Liquor Control Board of Ontario's product information page on Tobermory 10, taken from whiskey-pages.com:

Tobermory and its heavily-peated Isle of Mull stable mate, Ledaig, have recently been re-packaged and offered at 46.3 % abv in non-chill-filtered format. Fresh and nutty on the nose, with citrus fruit and brittle toffee. A whiff of peat. Medium-bodied, nicely textured, quite dry on the palate with delicate peat, malt and nuts. The finish is medium to long, with a hint of mint and a slight citric tang. Score - 3 Stars (out of 5). (Gavin D. Smith & Tom Cannavan, whisky-pages.com, Jan. 2011) 



REVIEW #123: Tobermory 10 year - 46.3% abv

Nose:  Sour bitter root vegetable.  Beets or turnip.  Sour melon rind.  Sauvignon blanc.  Taffy.  Maybe some sour green apple.  Foot sweat.  Bleh!  Something funky and weird.  Waxy.

Taste: It doesn?t taste like it smells.  It?s sour, sweet, vegetal, acidic, tart.  Overripe green apple?  Uhh? wet hay maybe.  I dunno.  Super hard to pin down.

Finish: Quick, acidic, tart, sweet, cereal. 

Score: 69/100 

Buy a full bottle? No.

Closing Thoughts: Never tasted anything like this before.  Would not buy a bottle.  not a fan.  The 15yo is so much better than this.  And Ledaig 10yo is really good, too.  But this one is a weird, oddball stinker.  [I?ve since learned by /r/Scotch that this is considered ?butthole whisky?.  Best to avoid? unless you?re into that sorta thing.]  



I?ve since learned by /r/Scotch that this is considered ?butthole whisky?.  Best to avoid? unless you?re into that sorta thing.]  

Nobody ever said to avoid it



A friend went into a liquor store aiming to grab Ledaig 10, accidentally grabbed Tobermory 10 without looking, didn't realize it until he got home, and we've both tried it a few times in an attempt to figure it out.  While it's an interesting exercise, neither of us found it to be worthy or a rebuy (for our palates).  

He house-sat for me when my wife and I went on vacation.  I bought a Ledaig 10 as a thank you and left it on his bar with a note: "Fixed that Tobermory 10 for you."



Honestly, try it again and hold it in your mouth. And I mean for at least two minutes. Get some saliva going before you do. Before you know it you'll be blasted with the taste of salt.

Next sip, it's incredible. Probably the biggest WHAT THE FUCK WAS THAT moment drinking for the first time. 



Review #28

Tobermory 10:  46.3%  $50 - 750

Color:  Diluted Golden Apple Juice, Amber +.5
Clings to glass with wide tears and legs.

Nose:  Barley Malt, Cereal, Honey, Banana, Pear, Floral, Grass, Sea Mist, Ginger and Spice 

Mouth Feel:  Light Oily, Small bite of spices

Taste:  Spicy Pepper, Butter Cream, Vanilla, Cereal, Salty, Honey, Nectarine, Banana Cream.

Finish:  Toffee, Syrup, Malty with a steady fade.

With Water:     N: Sweeter Syrup, Heather, Floral and Grass, Soft Fruit. 
            T:  Softens the Spiciness, Honey and Vanilla come out more with a           hint of Oak.

Score:  Taste:  69,  Value:  12,  Uniqueness:  4,  Buy Again: 3  Total:  88

This is a nice whisky, craft distilled and a decent blend of spice, sweet and fruit.  My only negative:  A bit young IMO, 2-5 more years might result in a softer spiciness and perhaps increase the overall depth of this dram. 



This is: the standard offering from Mull's Tobermory distillery. They also do the peated Ledaig which I put up in Caol Ila and Kilchoman territory. How will this one rate? I wondered as I sat in Monkey's Paw listening to the Avett Brothers. 46%ABV, $50  

Color: gold with legs.  

Nose: floral and grassy... malt, apple, blueberry, lavender, bergamot, and menthol.  

Taste: nutty, salty, & sweet... more malt, honey, caramel, cashews, roasted almonds, and lots of brine. Has a smooth and oily mouthfeel.  

Finish: bitter-sweet & herbal... candy corn, bay leaves, dill, mint, oats, more salt, and not smoke but ash. Reminds me of Jameson somehow.  

Conclusions: I dreamt the sea came to Winterfell-- er, I mean Speyside. This is how you do "basic" Not overly complex, smooth, malty, but with a distinct herbal and briny character. I like this distillery. Wish this offering was ten bucks cheaper. 83/100  

Comparisons:
Tobermory 15 - 92/100
Ledaig 10 - 87/100



Tobermory 10

This past August, I went snorkelling with basking sharks in the waters around the Hebrides in Scotland.  We stopped on the Isle of Mull, I asked the boat captain if he thought the distillery would be open.  He wasn't sure saying folks from these islands were "rather work shy".  Anyhow, it was open.  I didn't do the tour, but I did poke around.  Beautiful spot and interesting in that the distillery is pretty much in the middle of town which is rare (also the case in Oban where I did do the tour). 

So how's the 10?

Colour: Golden orange.

Nose: Citrus, decaying organic matter, salted caramel, wood, vanilla, slight sourness, green apples, sour pear, bread, sour bread, sea salt, and honeydew melon.

Palate: Apples, caramel, vanilla, bourbon, brown sugar, spice cake, ginger, malt, melon, and a slight "funky" note along the lines of the decay mentioned in the nose.

Finish: Ginger, black pepper, rotting wood.

Okay, there's a definite challenging note to this, but I like it.  I've heard that the 10 year increased it's abv. to 46.3% and it's a better scotch as a result.  The "Tobermory Funk" would definitely turn some people off, but I think it makes the whisky unique and enjoyable at the right time.

86/100 

This was part of  the "Island Flight" I enjoyed with my girlfriend on New Year's Eve and the Tobermory 10 was her favourite.
A few users were asking about this next one when I posted a picture on r/whiskyporn.  So I'm throwing in username mentions here.  /u/dustlesswalnut, /u/Devoz, and /u/Suck_It_Trebek - this one's for you.

