Tomatin 12, 43% ABV

This one is really rough for a 12 year old. I would generally take a blend, such as JW Black over this.
Tomatin, I believe, is (or at least was) one of the highest volume distilleries in Scotland. However, I think
 that there is a very good reason most of that went in to blends, it just doesn't really hold up on its own that well.

74/100 (review #28)



Bought this a few weeks ago, and I agree completely with your assessment.  Was pretty rough for a 12yr single malt.  I don't know how much you paid for it, but I paid 30 USD.  

I don't know what I was expecting for that price point, but it certainly isn't as good as the Chivas 12 I bought for the exact same price point.



Yeah, I hear you. For me, below 70 is pretty much "undrinkable", and I didn't feel it was quite that bad. 

For scotch ratings, I tend to base my scale on the Jim Murray/Michael Jackson ratings wheich are that most things fall between 70 and 95, with only the worst gasoline falling in the 60s or worse. It is somewhat of a condensed scale, but it allows me to compare with the books I have more readily. 



As I said above, that is the scale that the most poplar scotch books use. (Michael Jackson and Jim Murray). Both have write-ups of their scales at the front of the books. 

However think of it this way; if it managed to be produced, make it all the way to the US and still turn a profit, I'd expect it to at least get a "passing" grade for anyone to even take it seriously. This whisky is made by professional distilleries that have been in business for over a hundred years in some cases.

Your students, on the other hand, are amateurs still learning their craft. I would expect them to fail many times before they get it right. 

Along those lines, I'm not a teacher trying to teach the distilleries. I'm an enthusiast rating a mainstream and (usually) refined product. It is pretty rare that anything makes it this far in the production chain and doesn't at least earn a passing grade in my experience.

I also suspect if we just randomly started tasting individual casks from distillery warehouses, we'd find some Grade-F junk in there. But a distillery that wants to turn any kind of profit is going to hopefully weed that crap out before they bottle it and send it over.



When I visited 3 different distilleries in Scotland Tomatin was the last one we visited. Having tried Glen Ord the Singleton of theirs first, and the Old Pultney next I was dissappointed by Tomatin. It tasted more like a mass produced whisky and I found that the tastes were not as subtle or varied as the other two. 

The tour of the distillery itself was also a disappointment, they didn't let us look into the mash tun though it was very interesting to see where the casks were stored.

Story time over.

I agree with your assessment  is what I am trying to say.



This one is really rough for a 12 year old. I would generally take a blend [...]

This was very much my sentiment as well.

I actually prefer Tomatin's 8 year over their 12 year.

Am I crazy?



I like to get the 50ml sample bottles of Scotch for reviews. They're a
great inexpensive way of trying a new dram without paying bar prices
or getting stuck with a bottle you don't like.  I have a shelf with 6
or 7 of them needing tastings and reviews, but I keep adding to the
collection faster than I'm drinking them. Today, browsing a liquor
store's racks, I found bottles of a couple of blends I haven't heard
of before (And don't have any reviews in the database. I like new
stuff instead of the same old standards that already has 100 reviews
on file), and these 3 packs of Tomatin. The blends went in the pending
collection ,but I decided the single malts shouldn't wait.

Tomatin 12.  "Finished in Spanish Sherry Casks", 43% ABV.

Color: Pale coppery gold. Looks like apple juice.

Nose: Green apples. Hints of vanilla and nutmeg. Smells like apple
juice too. A few drops of water brings out the vanilla a lot more.

Palate: Cloves and other spice, oak, malty sweetness, apple. Water
adds a bit of brine. Letting it sit out and get some air brings out
the sherry.

Finish: Very creamy. Lingering alcohol burn with a bit of bitterness
and sherry notes.

This is a Scotch to give to somebody who loves cider.  It's a good
fall or winter dram, sipping on while sitting around a fire. I like
it.  A full bottle is only $23 at my usual online source, which
surprises me. I'd have figured it would be more; it doesn't taste like
a cheap whisky (And that's a bit less than I paid for this sampler set
locally!).  At that price, I can see it becoming a staple on my
shelf. 86/100.


You know, I just bought a similar triple pack a few months ago, save it has the legacy instead of the 15. I'll be doing a mega review of them, so we'll see if I turned out more lucky than you on the pack selection.

Nice reviews!



Love me some verticals!

Only had the 12 as a mystery dram and I totally agree with you. 



I did a little whisk(e)y shopping the other day and among the bottles that found their way home with me, was a 3 pack of Tomatin. I've never had Tomatin and know nothing about their profile, but it was a good price and I'm a sucker for something new. 

Tomatin 12 Year: Finished in Spanish Sherry Casks and bottled at 43%.

Color: Light gold.

Nose: Very light. It's fruity with sherried oak and white wine.

Taste: Thin, malty mouthfeel. Somewhat sweet, but there's a cinnamon spice too that borders on hot. Oak is present as well.

Finish: Short. The pepper and oak present turn the finish hot.

A bit of a one trick pony here. The 12yr old just really isn't all that flavorful and the heat puts me off this. It is a great value buy though, coming in at just $30, while Glenlivet and Glenfiddich's 12yr offrings are slightly over $40. That being said, if I want something fruity and simple, I'll put up the extra cash for Glenlivet or Glenfiddich.

67/100



I?m in Texas for the next week or so, so while I was out here I decided to take a look around for something that I can?t find as easily around my area. After looking up and down the aisle for long enough to annoy my wife, I decided I?d try out the Tomatin 12. It was cheap, $25, and it looked reasonable enough.

One of the biggest issues I had picking out the bottle for my trip was that I wanted to get something that wasn?t easy to get in the area, but I also didn?t want to get something that I would be disappointed to not take home with me. It ended up being mostly between this, a Tomintoul (they had 3 different variants which were in a reasonable price), and the Glendronach. I decided for this one, since it seemed like it was likely the one I would miss least here.

Nose: Buttery, popcorn. Apples, freshly sliced. Faint nuttiness.

Taste: Light. A little watery. Sweet, slightly bitter oak. Fruity, grapes and apples, with red fruits after it breathes a while. A bland grain taste, like stale wafers.

Finish: Slightly bitter, slightly peppery. Not particularly long.  Leafy.

Overall: About what I was expecting. The bitter oak was a little off-putting, but otherwise it seemed like a perfectly reasonable drink for the price. I can?t say I would recommend this over something else, but if you find that your wallet is making the decision on your purchase and can get this super cheap, its definitely drinkable.

Rating: 73 (Okay.)

On a related note, any recommendations on simple mixed drinks involving Scotch? While this is drinkable, I?ve still got a half bottle left over, and trying something new would be interesting. I gave Scotch and Ginger Ale a try, and felt it was pretty bad, at least with this scotch. It would be better with something peaty, but that certainly isn?t this.

--EDIT-- 

I completely forgot (probably due to the fact I've gone through half a bottle of this in the past two evenings) to post some of the details about this scotch that I love to see when I'm reading reviews.

This is a 40% Highland Single Malt, from Tomatin, who has a number of other offerings, but this doesn't really prompt me to really go after much else from them. If I saw another of their offerings for a similar price I might give it a try, but it would have to be quite the deal.

Also, according to the distiller's description, there is a slight nuttiness from being aged in Sherry Casks. I've never really gotten that from other sherried whisky, is that a thing?



Little higher than average. I've seen between $60 and $90 for it. Binny's in Chicago had the Macallan 18 for $200 and the Tomatin 18 at $60.

Oh and Tomatin bottles at 43% not 40% in the States.



For scotch drinks ... Either a rusty nail (2 to 1 scotch to Drambuie or whatever tastes good) or a blood and sand (you and sub Gran Marnier or Cointreau for part or all of the OJ). Both are great and the scotch flavor really comes through. Mostly for blended scotch but a single malt should be fine, especially if you're not interested in finishing the bottle straight.

Thanks for the review!



I would recommend a smokier scotch for a Blood and Sand. Been working on it for a cocktail list recently and I have been using Solerno's Blood Orange and fresh OJ (has to be fresh) with Noilly Pratt's Sweet Vermouth and Talisker 10 year. Comes out really well. The Cheery Heering is often the ingredient people have trouble getting and to my taste its the least important ingredient. The original blood and sand being equal parts blended scotch, cherry heering, sweet vermouth, and blood orange juice. The recipe really developed as it did because of what was available to the actors on set. Blood Oranges are primarily grown in Italy it seems so when most have made the drink over the years they used regular orange juice. Solerno is a great alternative to Grand Marnier and Cointreau in my opinion.

For cocktails to use this scotch in I would recommend a Rob Roy. Think a Manhattan but instead of rye/bourbon whiskey you are using scotch. Try and get ahold of Dolin's Sweet Vermouth (Rouge) and a bottle of Orange Bitters. For Orange Bitters there really isnt a bad brand. Regan's, Angustura Orange, and Bitter Truth are all good choices.



Tomatin 12, 43% ABV

Tomatin is a single-malt I had tried several years ago when I first began drinking scotch and came away perfectly neutral towards?it seemed okay, but nothing special.  As it turns out, apparently roughly 80% of its product goes straight into blends, and I find that other single-malts made primarily to be used in blends (such as the Aberfeldy 12) are made primarily to be an inoffensive tabula rasa.  The Tomatin 12 fits into that mold perfectly, so my initial impressions seemed to be spot on, even though I wasn?t really making any detailed tasting notes of any sort back then.  But Tomatin has come out with a USD $30 3-pack of minis of their 12, 15, and 18 single malts, which I felt might be worth a go mostly to try their 18, which is non-chill filtered and aged in Oloroso sherry casks.  But I?ll build up to that one and start here with the 12, which goes for about USD $40/bottle:

Nose: Bananas, honey, straw.  The latter two I find to be fairly common on the nose of many entry-level Highlands products, but the bananas do provide a unique twist, it?s like smelling banana bread.

Body: Really very light, not at all substantial despite the slightly higher 43% ABV compared to 40% for a lot of entry-level single malts.  A disappointment.

Palate: Fruit salad, salted caramel, malted grain or cereal, and just a bit of nuttiness, closest I think to toasted almonds, which would go well with the banana bread notes on the nose if it weren?t so weak.

Finish: Really rather flimsy, minimal burn but it is also very nondescript with the exception of a short burst of floral sweetness.  That?s about it, really.

Overall: It?s easy to see why so much of Tomatin finds its way into blends, because it isn?t bad per se, but boring and flat.  Even one-trick ponies presumably do their trick well, but Tomatin prefers to sleep rather than get up and go.  It?s an excellent filler scotch, which isn?t a compliment.  75/100



I drank about half a bottle of the 12 last night. Bought this at a whim as I was drunk and the name is very close to my friends Instagram account. They didnt find that fact as amusing as I did. 

I agree with your notes it is very nutty and light. The hangover today isnt too gnarly either, all considered. 

I definitely prefer Glenmorangie in the ~$40-50 range, though.



These were all reviewed semi-blind and side by side.

?

Tomatin 12, 43%

Nose:
Deep, dark, red fruits. Baking spices like cinnamon and nutmeg. French toast crunch all the way.

Palate:
Oily mouth feel with a watered-down bourbon cask taste. Oak, syrup strawberries, cinnamon, and walnuts. No layers, but the flavor is present through to the end of the palate.

Finish:
Medium finish with notes of smoke, berries, and oak char.

Conclusion:
Enjoyable. No flaws, but there is a lack of depth on the flavor. Inoffensive, and has pleasant, nutty notes on the palate. The nose smells exactly like french toast crunch, easily the best part of the dram. If my ratings included value, this might score a little higher.

In three words: Cinnamon, walnut, oak

Score:   81/100

?

All in all, these were OK. Interesting enough to look at some of their indie bottlings, but not enough for me to carve more space out in my too-full cabinet for the OBs.



I just can't get past the "sweaty locker room" smell of the tomatin. 

However, you gotta try their Nas legacy. Very good dram, probably better than the 12



Big thank you to /u/rmill3r for the swap.  The least I can do is have a dram on him as he powered through my samples.  Cheers to you friend!  

Nose: Apple pie filling, Pears, Honey, vanilla ice cream.  Hummm no citrus. 

Palate: Soft mouthfeel but not light.  Spicy but not in the sherry bomb way.  As if I drank a cinnamon heavy mulled cider through the cinnamon stick.  Some more fruit that is consistent with the nose, Cantaloupe from a fruit salad.  Also a little honey granola.  Water makes it more floral on the nose and bitter on the palate.

Finish: Great mix of sappy(not excessively sentimental) spice, dry oak, and nutty cloves

82/100 For starters I would say 40-43%abv, bourbon cask.  If I didn?t just taste Glenlivit 12 I would totally say that.  So something along those lines and thus roughly the same score.  The nose is pleasant but doesn?t change much, the palate has enough spice to keep you interested but not breathe fire, and the finish is very solid.



My experience with the Fiddich 18 was that it had more fruit spice and wood than this one.  

Initially I thought it might have a sherry finish, but I dunno; not enough red fruit...



Overview
Received this Highland single malt from /u/rmill3r in a recent swap, nice label! Continuing to explore some base level drams of a few distilleries I've yet to try.

Tomatin 12 Highland Single Malt - ABV 43%  

Enjoyed Neat and with a drop of water 

Price $22 - 750ml bottle 

Color: Watered Apple Juice, Amber

Nose: Damp sherry oak, sweet red apple, light vanilla, sour spice note, crushed pistachio A pretty simple, oaky and light fruit nose - Apples, Spice and Light Sherry

Taste: Watery, Bitter oak arrival of damp sherry, hot spice of cinnamon and light clove  A bitter dry hot watery palate of simple fruit and hot spice - Semi-bitter Sherry and Watery Fruit

Finish: A flash of heat that is short-medium in length, kind of a spicy burn, apple, spice, semi Spiced Rum feeling Short simple and hot with some tingling - Short Hot Pepper, Oak and Light Fruit

Summary
This is a pretty straight forward basic Highland dram. The nose is simple of apple, spice and light sherry, a drop of water helps it open it up a bit and brings out more fruits, vanilla and sherry. A watery semi-bitter oak palate with some fruit and spices, cinnamon, light dry clove - water helps bring out a touch more sherry. Into a finish that is hot spice and short with some damp sherry oak, a drop of water smooths the finish and lowers the heat but doesn't add too much excitement. This feels chill-filtered, seems like it could shine if it wasn't.

Nothing really to go bonkers over but it was worth giving it a try to see what Tomatin's baseline offering is like. Maybe their older expressions pack in more flavor? I thought this one was pretty lacking. For what /u/rmill3r paid though it would be a decent starter single malt on a budget.

Score  

72/100
Left me wanting for a bit more flavor, not a bad entry level single malt on a budget, benefits from a touch of water



Nice, looking forward to your experience with the Talisker, Bunna and Finlaggan.

You can save that sample of the Laga 16 for a future swap with someone now that you've got a full bottle of it. :)



Hello Scotchit, here is my 1st review of the Tomantin 12 Year old.  Warning, newbie. 

I had a 2nd dram and it went down a lot better. There was less bite and I could taste slight peat.  I don?t know if my palate calmed down or what.  You can?t argue the value (especially against JW Red), but I would not purchase again.  Speyburn is a better cheap single malt choice.



I would mirror your sentiments. It's not bad compared to other $20 bottles, but still not a whole lot going on. That is a touch of sherry you were tasting in the taste and finish (If I remember correctly). 

Thanks for a great review! Look forward to seeing more from you.
