Now the 18 year old Aberlour, bottled at 43%

Nose: Very Fruity!!, banana, tropical fruits, sherry, very nice oak, honey and almonds 

Mouth: honey, sherry, oak, vanilla, flower nectar, caramel, creamy

Finish: smooth, a bit oak, sherry, medium long and slightly creamy

Comments: probably my favorite Aberlour so far, smooth and nicely balanced. Strong flavors and very fruity, especially the fruityness is great. Almost 88 points, or 88 points? hmm

87 points (almost 88 :P)




*Aberlour 18 / 43% ABV *

Tasted neat, while watching HIMYM

I received this as a gift, and while it's not as much of a banger as Abunadh, it's quite nice!

I prefer the 12 NCF and Abunadh, but the 18 is a nice late-night dram.  It's warm, darker than a Macallan, less sherried and more toasted oak, but with sharper edges and hints of new oak.

Rating: 84/100

86th review



I enjoy this oakier expression from Aberlour quite a lot. I think it would be a knockout if they released an 18 NCF.

Also your image may be divulging personal information that you may not want exposed.



CORRELATE YOURSELF! 

(Just wanted to make sure you knew your gmail address was in there.)



98th /r/scotch review

/u/Scotch_Fanatic mystery dram

Tasted neat

This must be good because he only sent me an ounce ;)

Guess: Darkness! Benrinnes PX.

This is quite delicious, and I think my second-favourite of the bunch.  I quite enjoyed the undressed Benrinnes, as it demonstrates the underlying potency and cleanless of the distillate.

Rating: 92/100

99th /r/scotch review



Great reviews!  

But, Benrinnes 15?.... No. It's Aberlour 18! The standard OB one.



Intro: I like Aberlour. In my limited experience they're my favorite of the Speyside sherrybombs. I bought several of their 12 Double Cask before they knocked the ABV to 40% and the price rose by $10. I always thought their stronger stuff was superior, but I had never tried their more mature offerings. So why not a back-to-back? Why not, indeed.  

This is: Aberlour 18.  

43% ABV for me at least!  

color: Darkish amber...  

nose: Very light... peach, lavender, and oak.  

taste: Rich & sweet... peanut brittle, candy apple, butterscotch ice cream, and Whoppers. Almost chewable!  

finish: Sweet & oaky... honey, raisins, malt, vanilla, brown sugar, cream, with big oak and almond. Fades a bit too quickly.  

conclusions: What a mouth feel! Succulent. Unfortunately the finish isn't quite as big as I would want, with none of the big flavors sticking around. And, honestly, where is the sherry?! Yes, there is unmistakable raisin-sherry notes in the finish, but this isn't the bomb of even the 12 Double Cask. Rather un-Aberlour, this is. But it is also, very rich and very, very good.  

94/100  




Distilled/Owned by: Aberlour / Chivas Brothers Ltd.

Region: Speyside

43% ABV

Mashbill: 100% malted barley

Aged For: 18 years

Cask Type: Ex-bourbon and oloroso sherry casks

Chill Filtered: Yes

Color Added: Yes

Color: Light Mahagony

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn.

Nose: Dried fruit, raisin, sherry, oak, and caramel

Mouthfeel: A bit watery

Palate/Taste: Caramel, sherry, ginger, pepper, oak, and vanilla

Finish: Medium warmth with lingering pepper, and sweet wine

Thoughts: Middle of the road as far as sherry flavor, worsened by the watery palate.

Score: 79/100



Do you know the SMWS flavor categories at all? Would you put this in DRDF or SS/SD?

Is it at all similar to Aberlour A'bunadh?



In my experience, it is not similar to A'bunadh, at all.  Much more mild in both flavor and intensity.  It is a more refined, easy sipping whisky, for sure.  Like the OP, I found the mouthfeel to be watery and the overall experience to be middle of the road.

A more similar offering to the A'bunadh would be Aberlour 12 NCF.  It is like A'bunadh's little brother.

Edit because, spelling 



This sample is courtesy of /u/dustlesswalnut and is the second of four samples that he was kind enough to send me. Aberlour NCF and A'bunadh are two favorites of mine, let's see how the distillery does a whisky that's got some extra years in it. 

Aberlour 18

Age: 18 years

Strength: 43%

Color: Orangey brown. 

Nose: Strawberries! There's some fruity goodness going on in this nose. Cherries and watermelon candies. Orange peel. 

Palate: The fruit is much milder, tamed by 18 years of maturing on the barrels. There's a rich oakiness that reminds me of Glenfiddich 18, though it is more reserved. 

Body: Relatively light on the palate. Is this NCF? I had thought it wasn't, but there seems to be a little oiliness. 

Finish: Prickly and long. Has a decent umph considering the low proof. I like it. 

Summary: Well, /u/dustlesswalnut, your samples are two for two on being winners in my book. You have excellent taste, which leads me to believe that I really need to try the Tuns sometime. I think the Aberlour 18 stacks up nicely as a replacement for my Glenfiddich 18 when it runs dry, along with Auchentoshan Three Wood. 

Score: 92/100 (Awesome)

Scotch Review #13

Whisky Review #17



On a side note, do the labels I put on the bottles come off easily?

I used to use sticky note -like hand written labels but I bought some printable lables for the Four Roses split and liked not having to hand write everything. I was concerned that they'd leave residue or be otherwise difficult to remove though.

Should I keep using them?



The aberlour bottles are gorgeous and useful, but let me tell you from experience it is a NIGHTMARE getting them off. 

Hot water, scrubbing, soaking and goo-gone and it was still probably a 45 minute exercise at least. They awesome once its done tho. I have quinoa in mine and I have two more I will keep when I finish my abunadh and 12NCF.



Ha, I mean the labels I put on the 2oz sample bottle I sent him.

Good to know, though!



Hmm. Between your review and texacer's more recent one, it made me want to hunt down a bottle of this. Looks like it sells for $85 near me. But I can find Glenfiddich 18 for $70.

Do you consider them neck-and-neck, or do you prefer one over the other?



Haha I know, I'm still subscribed to his semi-private subreddit too. 

To answer your original question...it's a tough call. As tex said, the Glenfiddich is a little oakier and the Aberlour is a little sweeter. 

I'll put it this way: 

If you want bang for your buck and a whisky that showcases it's age above all else, go for the Glenfiddich. It's all about the 18 years in the barrel. 

If you want the scotch that you can't find in bars from time to time and most liquor stores, that is a little more complex, go for the Aberlour. 

I think they're basically even and I'd go Glenfiddich most likely, but that's easy to say since I couldn't buy the Aberlour even if I wanted to. 



Cool. Thanks for the details.

Have you had a chance to try Glenfiddich Cask of Dreams by any chance? It's apparently still available in my area. I'm thinking of buying a bottle for the office.



Aberlour 18, 43% ABV

Nose: Rich sherry and honey. Fruit preserve. Fresh cherries and plums. Macadamia and walnut. Faint potpourri, eucalyptus and mint. Wet cardboard and rotting leaves. Cabbage. Wood smoke and struck matches. Acetone.

Taste: Light-medium bodied and watery. Honey & lemon tea. Marmalade. Old musty wood. Imitation vanilla essence. Leathery, vegetal and volatile. Cinnamon, nutmeg and pepper. Solventy grainy notes.

Finish: Liquorice and ethanol. Medium length and forgettable.

Get a?Bunadh instead. It?s cheaper and a lot better. Or even Mortlach 16 F&F which is similar, but without the solvent notes.

76/100

Review 161



Get a?Bunadh instead.

Okay, fiiine. I'll get a'Bunadh.



Wow. Just... wow. 

I recently had some of this at a Whisky Live event and I couldn't stop thinking about it for a week. By the time I came back for another it was gone and I was beating myself up for not getting another sip. I thought it was absolutely fantastic, and the taste and finish were like nothing I'd tasted before. I came home to realize that this stuff just isn't available around here, and the 16y is the oldest we get.

It's remarkable how dissimilar an experience some people can have with the same thing, huh? I hope this comes to the States soon-- if you don't want it, I'll take it all!



tbh, a'bunadh's the only good thing from aberlour...that's one of my least favorite distilleries but a'bunadh's probably one of my favorite whiskies in and of itself....weird. 

Also...

volatile 



Thanks to /u/myanonymouslife for the sample!  Aged for 18 years and bottled at 46% ABV.

?

Nose:  Smells like sherried whisky.  Apples.  Creamy dried fruit.

Palate:  Medium creamy mouthfeel.  Apples and spice.  Cinnamon apple sauce.  Dried fruit and vanilla.

Finish:  Medium finish.  More apples.  Quite a bit of spice.

Score: 85/100

?

I enjoy this quite a bit.  But its not as good as any of the A'Bundah I've tried.  But it is nice.  If you're looking for something on the spicy side of sherried at least.  Just not a very good value for the money.

?

/u/review_bot 'Aberlour'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Aberlour:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  I hear Aberlour gives great tours.  Some day if I make it to Scotland I'd love to see it.  The name just sounds so smooth:  Abber-Lowwer.....  Surprisingly, though I like them a lot, i havent had many of their expressions.  lets cross one off:  Aberlour 18 year 43%abv

well balanced and delightful.  but a little expensive for what it is.  I'll stick my money into the 12 NCF still.  however, I would probably recommend this as a perfectly good alternative to the massively overpriced Macallan 18.  what a load of crap that is... the price on it, not the malt itself which is okay

91/100

Aberlour 11 year old Duncan Taylor - 88/100

Aberlour 12 Double Cask - 84/100

Abelour 12 Nonchillfiltered - 97/100

Aberlour Abunadh 34 - 93/100

Aberlour Abunadh 39 -  93/100



I hear Aberlour gives great tours. Some day if I make it to Scotland I'd love to see it.

Geez I have no idea where that rumor comes from. I've been to Scotland a number of times now, done tours at about 25 distilleries, and I will tell you that Aberlour was very possibly the worst distillery to tour.

The whole operation is very computerized and automated: steel vats and wash tubs all controlled by computer, direct fire stills controlled by computer timing, super squeaky-clean warehouses and a little giftshop with just the standard range for sale (including a 15yo at the time). There is ONE staff member working in the WHOLE distillery at any time: no need for any more as computers have it covered. The early part of the official tour is walking through some tour-specific rooms of brief distillery history etc, which feels really 'forced' and uninviting. Also, absolutely NO photos allowed...

This is just one guy's experience with Aberlour, and it doesn't affect my opinion of their great whiskies. There were at least 20-24 other distilleries I'd get into first: ones where you can walk through the heather, shovel some peat into an oven, walk barefoot through the barley malting floor and talk to any one of the 20+ staff you see getting their hands dirty. Then after the tour you can then sit in a tasting room, chat with the distiller (not the sales schmuck) and taste whisky straight from a dog/barrel. Springbank, Balvenie, BenRiach, Glenfarclas, Laphroaig, Bruichladdich, etc all have traits similar to this. 

If the whole computerized 'diageo-feeling' of corporate creation intrigues, then I'd go for Aberlour or Glenfiddich or Glenlivet tours. Otherwise, eh, there's still lots out there that trump it.



Weekend greetings Scotchit! So I had different experiences with Aberlour. The 10 yo and the 12 yo Double Cask were meh, but I liked the 16 yo Double Cask. The A'Bunadh is great, and the 12 NCF is just the bomb. (Note to myself: post these reviews you lazy dog.) So I stumbled on this (I'm persuading myself I "stumbled on it", but, you know how it works...):

Aberlour 18

Speyside, 43%

color: copper

nose: dark chocolate, hint of fennel, wet soil, orange zest, sherry, canned pears, sage, caramel, peaches

taste: sherry, vanilla, oak, dark chocolate, honey, candied fruits, hint of pineapple, floral and nutty notes

finish: eh, short

To get this straight, this is a decent, no: good malt. Pretty rich. And well balanced. But it's surprisingly mild and soft. Rather blendlike than a 18 yo sherry matured malt. A shrinking violet compared to the A'Bunadh.

82/100
