A'bunadh batch 47 - 60.8% NCF

Colour: Light caramel/mahogany (it's the colour of caramel, but I don't think it has e150, doesn't state explicitly, but does say 'bottled straight from the cask', so they'd have to be putting the e150 into the cask or bottle directly to weasel their way around that wording, which seems unlikely.)

Nose: sherry,  thin dry slats of wood,  malty mince pies, creamy vanilla custard, kitchen cleaning chemicals, wood polish, cooked raisins, chocolate, sweet fresh cigarette smoke

Taste: syrupy caramel, hot spiced apple, spicy pepper, unrefined brown cane sugar, quite spicy, the more water added: the more oaky the taste becomes.

Mouthfeel: a bit tannin-y, has that dry woody astringency, amplified by the kick of the alcohol, but the burn isn't too bad, considering the abv. 

Finish: feint apple peel (weak but long lasting), lots of wood, a sort of papery sherry  note (like a fresh sheet of paper soaked in sherry), gentle coffee

I've found that it's actually quite easy to add too much water to this. I've come to what I think is the sweet spot of 25ml of whisky to 5ml of water, even though that still only brings it to 50%. More water than this has occasionally washed out the interesting sherry and sweet notes, leaving pretty much nothing but dry oak tannins, last night I had 50ml with 5ml of water, and it was pretty good there too. I'd warn, with this batch at least, don't get too zealous adding water, it breaks down a little if taken below 50% abv. Try it at full strength and add <2.5ml at a time until it's to your taste.

Typically heralded as 'the' introductory sherry bomb, I'd call it more of a sherry glass cannon, because I feel like there's young whisky, or at least, harsh whisky, in this that can at times get in the way of the more subtle, and, in my opinion, better notes, and it's easily drowned with too much water. Still, this is excellent overall, especially considering the price. And I have to say, this is a haunting dram: just reading over my post to check for spelling mistakes, I can taste and smell it in my mind more than any other scotch I've had so far, this is the one I'm excited to go home and drink in the evenings. 

I probably won't be buying another bottle anytime soon, simply because there's too much other stuff to try, but I can see myself picking up a new one when batch 48 comes out. 



But they're leaving me with the sense of increasing youth in it... and that's not a good thing.

I'm not against the use of young whisky on principle, and if they make it work, which they have done so far, then it's fine.

As I noted, it says on the label 'bottled straight from the cask', but then, they could be pulling a glendronach and marrying all sorts of different stock together in a cask before bottling, at which point 'straight from the cask' becomes a little meaningless.

Now that I think about, this must be what they do, otherwise they'd market it as single barrel. Oh well.
So yeah, they could be struggling to maintain the quality between batches, who knows. If it starts to decline noticeably, I can just stop buying it. Though I really wish they just do something like state "this is a marrying of 6, 12 and 16 year old whiskies", that way nobody can hold the NAS against them.



According to the wiki article (which isn't cited mind you) says it is from barrels ranging from 5-25 years of age.  I have gone through a bottle of batch 37, 38 and half a batch 41; have to agree with you two on the younger whisky increase. Batch 38 was much smoother than my current batch 41 IMO. I may have to move on from one of my favorite sherry bombs on the market right now. 

I have a bottle of Macallan cask strength I have yet to open, I can't wait to see how that goes!



Batch 47? Man, I've ordered it at two different stores in the last 6 months or so and got batch 45. Then I saw it at a grocery store a few months ago and bought it and it was batch 44! I'm going backwards! 

Anyway, I might be crazy, but I think batch 44 was better than 45. I wonder which batch I'll encounter when I finish the bottle of 44.



I have the 46, but absolutely do not have the knowledge and ability to taste like you guys do. 

Anyone else have one?



I have the 46, but absolutely do not have the knowledge and ability to taste like you guys do.

I'll admit, it took me a good few drams to get some of the more subtle notes. Based on a single sample my notes would have been thinner. 

Also, it's hard to get the water right, at least with this one.



This sample was part of my secret Santa gift from /u/allurex. Thanks!

It's bottled at cask strength (in this case 60.7% ABV). 

Nose: Big buttery sherry and malt, sweet citrus, red fruit (plum), dried fruit (prune, raisin), rum cake, roasted nuts

Palate: hot, sweet dried fruit (raisin, prune and apricot), cinnamon candy, salted roast nuts, marzipan

Finish: honey roasted peanuts, marzipan, fruitcake, warming spices...long finish that isn't overly complex but is lovely.

Score: 89/100

This is as Christmasy a malt as I can think of. It's not particularly complex, but it hits the notes you'd expect (fruit, nuts, spice) and is huge! I didn't notice much of a sulfur note either, which seems to mess up a lot of sherried malts for me lately (especially at higher proofs). Delicious stuff.



Baseball season is back, my KC Royals are 3-0 early, let's celebrate!

Aberlour A'bunadh Batch #47 - 60.7% - $80

Color: Ruby tinted copper

Nose: Big and bold. Molasses, figs, dry sherry, spicy, rich dark chocolate, fresh grass, cinnamon, maybe a little vanilla, toffee, fruity candy, strawberries and cream, red oranges. Very rich and enjoyable nose. 

Taste: Spicy right away, then rich dark fruit, caramel apples, cinnamon, figs, creamy sherry, mint,  bright citrus, creamier on the back end with some late nuts as well.

Finish: So warm, lightly dry, very long.

Score: 94/100

Buy again? Maybe, especially since Mac CS is gone :(

Every glass of this I've had, I've appreciated it a little bit more than the last time. Many compare it to Macallan CS (review coming), which I think is fair. If this continue to be readily available at a reasonable price, it might be a mainstay in my cabinet.

PS: The bottle/mouth shape is infuriating. I spill a little pretty much every time. 

@review_bot



A'bunadh is the best Scotch I've ever had and possibly the best whiskey I've ever had (I hate to say that as an American who's had some really good Bourbons before but it might very well be true).

I love that stuff...and pine for the days when it was $60 a bottle, it's up to $90 around here now.



Another swap from the marvellous /u/Scotch_Fanatic the first I?ve tried from the distillery, apparently as so many of you have I now seem to only want to try cask strengths at home and wow does this one pack a punch at 60.7%. here goes:  

Colour: Dark Amber

ABV: 60.7% (whoa) 

Nose: Say hello to a lot of sherry and then let the sherry batter your nose in with some more sherry, An awful lot of dried fruits and I thought a quite lovely little hint of banana and some red fruits as well with some ginger and chocolate undertones and then though it may sound odd I thought that I got a distinct smell of rain fall on the pavement. (on googling I discovered its called petrichor  which is a good word)  

Palette: Surprisingly spicy from the get go very warm and rich, cinnamon and pepper being the main contenders, still all those red fruits from the nose but mainly cherries coming through now. Fairly strong malt, and some lovely citrus zest peeping through the taste congregation. I also thought that it was oddly mellow for such a high ABV but you could tell just how strong it was from the extraordinarily light mouthfeel.  

Finish: A long lingering sherry warmth that travels down the throat and stays in the roof and back of the mouth, a very gorgeous finish indeed, with just a little hint of allspice there along with the sherry.   

Conclusions: A really lovely sherry bomb I may be tempted to buy a bottle but I can?t help comparing it to the Glendronach C.S. that I just reviewed by review of and can?t help think that is the better Cask strength sherry bomb that I?ve had. Aside from that overall an excellent whisky and the finish really is just fantastic 

88/100



I love the Aberlour 47 so I shall be taking a look at the Glendronach CS. Cheers! (Slainte!)

EDIT: Searching on Amazon UK for Glendronach and Prime Eligible I get offered the Aberlour. Are they reading /r/scotch ?



This would be the equivalent of having a glass of Octomore as your first Islay. You may or may not enjoy it, but you certainly wont appreciate it without having something else as a reference. 

Have you had many standard sherried bottlings? MaCallan 12, Glenfarclas 12 or even Aberlour 12 would be good benchmarks to start with.



Hello Scotchit, Scotch_Fanatic here with my first review, of something I decided to purchase after reading many great reviews here. 

Aberlour A'bunadh Batch #47 121.4 proof

Color: Golden copper

Nose: Sherry, lots of it, strawberry cake with whipped cream, faint buttery caramel.

Palate:  Incredible warmth and richness, followed by sweet caramel, stawberries and delicious sherry. Surprisingly mellow for being so high proof.

Finish: Long and warm with lots sherry lingering.

This was a truly amazing dram. The richness and complexity of the nose and palate is amazing, the finish leaves me wanting so much more. Overall the best scotch I have ever had. Can I ever turn back from cask strength?

Score: 96/100



You picked a good one to start your reviews with!  Abunadh is a personal favorite.  

Cask strength is also a pretty tough thing to argue against...it is strong, but it is whisky in its natural state.  You can always add water if it is too strong.  Tougher to remove water from a low ABV pour to get up to CS!

If you look at the Malt Map on the sidebar, Macallan CS is right near Abunadh.  Worth questing for a bottle if you haven't tried it!  (I believe it is discontinued, so it is getting hard to find...)



great to hear!

cheers



Aberlour A'bunadh Batch 47 60.7%

First try from this distillery, I've heard a lot of good things about this expression particularly, certainly the most popular from Aberlour on this sub. Another kind swap from the wonderful /u/scotch_fanatic 

NAS. Cask strength. NCF and supposedly made without "modern process". 
Tasted neat. 

Slight burn on the nose here due to the high ABV. Slightly strange but very enjoyable mix of bananas and cherries. Complex and lovely. 

A tad sharp and prickly at first, but mellows a touch. Lovely fruits here, and the malt in the background hints at real quality spirit. 

Comments: This is a very tasty and in your face sherry bomb, the sweetness and spice is wellwoven with a deep wholesome malt throughout. However, I'd be lying if I said I wasn't comparing this to Glenfarclas 105 (review here) as I drank it, and for me it's not quite as good. I tried a small pour of the 105 a little while afterwards to compare and I feel that it handles the high strength a little better than the A'bunadh, which was quite sharp at times. The 105 is more well rounded and woody (perhaps older?). Still, this remains a very pleasant dram, and well deserving of a 92/100



Hey there scotchit! This is an odd one ? no not the side-by-side, I guess it's a pretty standard ?often recommended cs sherry bomb?-SBS ? as I somehow forgot I had these three (yes, there is one more) reviews typed out at the evening of the DFB Cup final between Bayern Munich and Borussia Dortmund some time ago but never posted them. For reasons unknown, or at least forgotten.
Anyway, as there was no introduction mumbojumbo I probably wanted to write a witty and clever introduction but failed to do so. I'm not going to make up for that now, as that would probably take me forever and then I'll forget to post again, so without further ado here's a side by side of two of the most recommended sherry bombs.     

WhiskyNetworkReview: #105 (hohoho, maybe I was waiting for this?)+106 | r/bourbon: #17 | r/scotch: #78+79 | r/worldwhisky: #10 | ? 85

Aberlour | A'Bunadh (Batch 47) | NAS | 60.7% | Oloroso Sherry butts | 60?  in Germany |
and
Glenfarclas | 105 | NAS | 60% | Sherry (I think Oloroso, but I'm not sure) | 36?  in Germany |

Nose:
AA: Starts with a bit of a burned rubber/sulfur note as well as tart fruits, but then some sherry notes come through as well as baking spices and some oak, strangely enough the nose reminds me a bit of a high proof rye. Weird! There are tart fruits like green apples as well as cherries underneath that though. Over time these fruity notes take more and more room. Needs some time/air to open up, then mostly all of the rubber/sulfur is gone and the nose is quite nice with strong vanilla and honey notes.     

105: Different but with a similar backbone: strong medium dry Sherry notes (fresh dough, grapes, a bit fermented cereals and baking spices) at the front combined with honey and wood, also a slight burned rubber/sulphur note (a bit stronger than in the AA). Over time some more fruit notes develop but the sulfur gets a bit too overpowering for me. Meh.

Taste:
AA: very creamy and sweet entry, nice spicy abv bits, honey, roast apple (Bratapfel), marzipan, nuts and some ripe green grapes, noticeable but little oak      

105: The entry is also creamy but a bit less then with the AA. Overall this is a bit less sweet then the AA, even though this has more milk chocolate notes but less sugary/honey sweetness. Raisins, cake frosting and nice strawberry notes, shows clearly more wood influence then the AA. I think I read this is in the 8-10 years range, which sounds probable. The abv needs a little more time to develop its spicy bites which start shortly before the Finish.    

Finish:
AA:  looooong, dark kind of honey, there are tart fruity aspects below it nicely adding another dimension and depth to it, baking spices as well fierce peppery abv bites, drying at the end.     

105: The finish is then dominated by a spicy combination of cinnamon and pepper as well as honey. Sweet oranges a bit like Java Cake stroll along the way. Long and pretty similar to the A'bunadh.    

Conclusion:
The Aberlour is a wee bit bolder but also simpler, the 105 is more refined as it has more depth but to me, is also less powerful. The nose of the 105 really put me off but the rest made up for it pretty nicely! And it comes at a price here in Europe which is hardly beat. I'd say only by Lagavulin Costo prices.
The A'bunadh can't deny its relation to the 12 NCF. I haven't had that for a long time but I would say that I prefered the NCF a small bit because it has a bit more complexity and depth. Still a very solid B. It needs some time to open up but then it's very comforting, warm and decadent. A bit simple though, but still nice.
More recently, I'd take the Glendronach CS over all three of them (NCF, A'b, 105). Speaking of which, wasn't there a sample in the mail? Oh yeah, some Glendronach Sauternes Finish /u/SparkTrader send! Yummi!
Oh, wait! Let's finish this one first. So, how would I rate them? First of all, I'd give both the same grade, they are pretty similar in terms of enjoyment. I would give both:

Score: A pretty good B so 86/100

So, is an agestatement and a Sauternes finish better then NAS and Oloroso maturation? 



REVIEW #139: Aberlour A?Bunadh - Batch 47 -  60.7% abv

Nose:  dark, heavy, chocolate, dry cocoa powder, strawberry compote, black cherries, raisins, prunes, cider apples, clove, nutmeg, cinnamon, potpourri, floor wax polish, tupelo honey, dunnage warehouse, damp earth.  With water: orange rind, toasted oakiness, dusty basement, pecans, cookie dough, fruit cake.  Red Twizzlers / licorice. 

Taste: chocolate, cream, sticky raisins, cherries, strawberry jam, raspberries, blackberries, prunes, cinnamon, crushed red pepper heat, pecans, nicely mouth coating, robust, intense, brazil nut, burnt sugar, vanilla, Red Twizzlers.

Finish: chocolate, cherries, spearmint, custard, cherry cough lozenge, slightly burnt caramel corn, creme br?l?e, long lasting, burning coals of heat, scotchy scotch scotch. Here it goes down.  Down into my belly.

Score: 92/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes.  It?s on the short list.  Definitely getting a bottle of this.  Just need advice on batch #?s.

Closing Thoughts: Deep, dark, rich, robust, good value for money, spiced, fruity, chocolatey goodness.  I enjoy this a lot more than Glenfarclas 105, which I find to be very hot and thin by comparison.



Thanks for the review.

FYI, I track batches separately on my whiskyanalysis.com meta-critic site.  Just enter "a'bunadh" into the search feature here, and you will see them all sorted by score.  Batch 47 gets about an average rating. Batch 49 is the highest I've seen yet.  

Unfortunately don't have much data for the current batches (53/54), so they don't meet the threshold for reporting yet.



I picked this bottle quite a while back after never trying anything from Aberlour, but reading many good things about it. A non-chill filtered offering at cask strength was quite tempting even though there's no age statement on this one. I recently decided to crack this one open after finally cracking open my Glenfarclas 105. We'll see how this one compares to that.

Aberlour A'Bunadh / 60.7% ABV

Batch #47

Setup - Neat in a glencairn, then w/ a few drops of filtered water

Wallet Damage - July of 2015 / 750mL / ~$64 USD / (after WA state taxes of 20.5% + $3.77/liter)

Region/Type: Highland

Chill-Filtration: NO

Nose - (w/o water) Dark dried stone fruits, faint clove & cinnamon spice, this odd ripe banana funk, dark red wine, hint of dark chocolate (w/ water) Mellows out the spice a bit, more of a cleaner crisp, less syrupy dried dark stone fruit, almost like an aged rum.

Taste - (w/o water) Explosion of fruity dried cherries, prunes, cranberries, and raisins. Lightly bittersweet like crushed cherry pits. White pepper like heat, rehydrated dried cherries in red wine. (w/ water) Tones down the white pepper heat, more drying, more dark chocolate covered raisins/cranberries/cherries paired with a sweet red wine.

Finish - (w/o water) Lingering hint of bitter, sweet gentle heat, fading rehydrated cherries/cranberries in red wine. (w/ water) Bitterness remains, a cleaner more crisp sweet dark dried stone fruits. Like a thinner, less syrupy, but higher alcohol content sherry.

Score - 90/100

Final Thoughts - This is a very tasty sherried Scotch like the Glenfarclas 105, but I find that there's this hint of bitterness that lasts from the instant it hits your tongue and lingers a bit on the palate that I'm not a huge fan of. Very much a sherry bomb whisky and very tasty. A tiny bit of water opens it up a bit by mellowing out some of the spice from the higher proof and I think I prefer it that way as it softens it up and makes it a bit less cloyingly sweet.

Whiskey Network Review #99

EDIT: Apparently I can't even read from the bottle



*A'Bunadh.

Sorry..



No worries. 

You can't edit titles, but I'm sure everyone knows what you are reviewing despite a transposed letter or two :)

Good review too BTW.



Is the 105 cheaper than A'Bunadh in the US, or do you mean you like it more enough to compensate for the slight price difference in Aberlour's favour?

I ask because 105 is consistently more expensive (albeit marginally) than A'Bunadh here in Aus..



Tough for me to say. The 105 is not distributed in my state at all, so I order it from other states or the UK. Ordering it was much cheaper than what I paid for the A'bunadh in my state. However, the A'bunadh can also be found much cheaper online. So... let's just say it's a wash price-wise with shipping and such. 

If I had to pick one, I'd stick with the A'Bunadh batches I've had over the 105.



I find it hard to choose which I prefer myself, though I have been drinking A'Bunadh for a good long time now and have had many more bottles of it than the 105..

I think that's also because I do prefer A'Bunadh, but to be perfectly sure I really need to sample some more 105. For science, you know.



I support science. 

Hey, I happily drink 105, A'Bunadh, and Glendronach CS interchangeably when I'm looking for some pure, beefy sherry. I'll have to put them head-to-head-to-head one of these days. 



They are all fine drams; might I suggest seeking out the Glengoyne CS to add to that list? 

To my mind it isn't quite up there with the others; however, it's still a worthy whisky and comes in a decent bit cheaper (here at least)..



about this series  As we near the end, I want to say thanks again to /u/Kilrathi for entrusting me with so many of his favorite drams.

It's Christmas Eve! The office closed early and we are all sent home early. Time to settle in the man cave for a bit of me time before church tonight. Time to crack another mystery sample

Initial Impressions: It's whisky. Not sure of anything else at this point. I seem to be fighting a cold, not the best time for a mystery sample. But... the show must go on! 

Nose: vanilla caramel apples, ripe red apples, not green. Dry wood. Some grapes or cherries, trying to decide if there is a sherry influence here.  It does have somewhat of a sour scent too that could be the sour mash. 

Nose with water: dry wood with some honey floral scents, honeysuckle. The fruit is much more subdued and the caramel is gone completely. Hot pepper. 

Mouthfeel: ABV is strong, medium thick, dry. 

Taste: immediate burn, rich fruit and wood. Caramel vanilla too. Sawdust and a hint of cinnamon/pepper spices, possibly peppermint even. 

Taste with water: rich sugary vanilla red fruits, still burns quickly. Oak persists, less dry now, and more vibrant, with a trailing sour note like pine sap. Cinnamon/peppermint flavor remains in the background. Between the rich foods of the season, my cold, and the first half of this dram with no water, my palate is virtually gone. I worry that I am missing something here, but I believe I've got it all. 

Finish: surprisingly short. Aftertaste is mixed with rich red fruits, oak, and vanilla caramel all coming in to play. 

It's good, but not spectacular. Certainly above average at cask strength, it's right on the line between solidly good and excellent.

Score: 89.5/100

In going back over my scores to see where this fits in, I came across my entry for Macallan Cask Strength. This sample was reminiscent of that, and I actually scored this right beside The Macallan CS as they were similarly enjoyable. I think, though, that the aftertaste was different, and I am not wholly convinced yet that this was not a bourbon. I will return after further research. 

Not a lot to report, a'Bunadh nope, no strawberries here, Glenfarclas 105, had it once, nope. Glenrothes 1985 is rumored to be in this neighborhood, but I can't find enough tasting notes to formulate a guess. But then I found something, and I have a sneaky suspicion. This guess comes to you courtesy of day seven:

Official Guess: Arran 12 Cask Strength

The Reveal: Aberlour a'Bunadh, batch 47

But where are my strawberries??!? Still, this was a lovely dram for a Christmas Eve. 

Would I buy it again? Uncertain on this. It's not a daily or weekly pour for me at this point, but I can see wanting it on occasion. As long as /r/scotchswap is going strong, it's more likely I'll just trade for a sample periodically so I can have it on hand should the mood strike. 

Series Accuracy (today's accuracy rating in bold):

Series Navigation
