Aberlour A?bunadh Batch #39

Aged exclusively in ex-Oloroso Sherry butts, bottled at cask strength and non-chill filtered, I?m expecting great things out of this malt after tasting the 12 year Double Cask Matured. I found this older bottling at a small store in Tennessee near my parents home and snatched it up for around $65. It?s bottled at 59.8% ABV.

Nose: Sherry notes, red currants, red grapes, dates. Berry medley, with distinct strawberry and raspberry notes providing a sweet/sour balance. Candied sugars. Very slight hint of oak. I love this nose. Let?s see if the palate and finish live up to it.

Palate: Creamy malt. Sherried candies, almost like a blend between strawberries and toffee. Sun-dried raisins. Citrus notes come out. The mouthfeel is jammy, heavy, and thick. The high proof provides a nice tingle, quite like the menthol in the 12 year double cask.

Finish: A long lasting finish. Cherries come out and blend together with a nice citrus note of lemons and oranges. Sugared rock candies top off the finish with a sublime sweetness.

Conclusion: A beautiful malt. Hands down one of my favorite malts. The palate tastes a little young with that creamy malt note, but this whisky is crafted around that sweetness. Everything seems sculpted to have a proper place. If something seems too sweet, a tad bit of sourness brings it back into equilibrium. The finish and the palate truly live up to the nose and leave me wanting to come back to this dram and discover if I?ve missed anything (I have!). Truly magnificent.

Score: 95/100



Speyside, 59.8% ABV (Cask Strength), $69.99 for 750ml (local)

Color: Red amber

Nose: Sherry, melon, apples, chocolate, honey

Palate: Explosion of sherry. Intense, spicy and hot!

Finish: Long with lots of spice and prominent alcohol burn

Nose: Sherry, apples and pears, cardamom, chocolate, maple syrup

Palate: Deep, complex and full. Sherry, apple, pear, tangerine, caramel, cinnamon, roasted nuts, malt, oak and honey

Finish: Long, full finish. Creamy caramel and chocolate aftertaste with an intense heat. 

Score and Remarks:
90/100: At cask strength, this was almost too much for me. Drinking this neat, all I could taste was sherry and alcohol, essentially. But wow, was it good. Intense, full of sherry flavor and spice. A real eye opener. Adding 3 teaspoons of room-temp filtered water opened up the dram quite a bit. It becomes a lovingly playful scotch ? bright and merry with cheery citrus, apple and pear notes, chock full of strong sherry flavor. It concludes with a lingering and enjoyable heat, hints of caramel, and notes of chocolate and cream. Highly recommended.



nice review, very cool bottle cozy.

I'm almost through a bottle of Batch #42, and will cry one manly tear once it's empty.  this is easily my favorite sherry bomb.



On a recent trip to New Zealand I tried the Aberlour A'bunadh Batch #38 with dinner and was fairly impressed. I knew I had a bottle at home, but couldn't recall what batch it was.

When I did get home I was somewhat disappointed to see that I had Batch #39 and on trying a quick sample it wasn't the whisky I remembered. 

So I managed to convince someone to pick me up a bottle in NZ and bring it back to Australia for me and I took delivery this morning. Was going to wait for the weekend, but when the other half asked for some whisky I thought this was a perfect opportunity to do a face off!

Aberlour A'bunadh Batch #39

Speyside

59.8% ABV

Colour: Dark Amber

Nose: Raisins, nutmeg, cinnamon, toffee, chocolate 

Taste: Spices galore with cinnamon, nutmeg and ginger. Reminds me of ginger biscuits with under currents of raisins and berries.

Finish: A medium long finish with the spices coming through again, mostly cinnamon and ginger. Fades to raisins and berries. May not appear to last quite as long because of the initial spice hit that then fades away, but you can still taste hints of raisins for quite a while afterwards.

Overall: A great whisky that hints in the nose of the spice that it is about to deliver on the palate.

84/100

In Comparison

It is strange how different these whiskies are when they have the same name. The nose is fairly similar with it being difficult to tell them apart except that the #39 has stronger spice and caramel notes to it.

The taste however is radically different. 

The #39 on the other hand is a spice bomb and feels like it has more of a kick despite it having slightly less alcohol.

The finishes follow the tastes fairly closely and as you can tell from the scores I do prefer the flavour profile of the #38 (as does the other half). The #39 however is still great and the spices are wonderful if that is what you are looking for. 

I think the #39 would go great with a sweet dessert where I think the #38 is a dessert in itself!

I am now really looking forward to future batches (wherever I can find them anyways).



aberlour a'bunadh batch 39, 59.8% ABV

i love a'bunadh - although i love my islay peat bombs, i think it's one of the best, if not the best "bang-for-your-buck" whiskys out there

color: deep amber/caramel

nose: sherry, red fruit, spice, hints of orange, chocolate, caramel

taste: absolute sherry bomb - i love it! orange, chocolate, caramel, a very sweet and pleasant ginger, all sorts of wonderfulness

finish: lingering, intense, spicy yet creamy, bitter sweetness of citrus and red fruit. the interplay is wonderful. it hits all parts of your mouth.

score: 94

on a semi-unrelated note, i saw a bottle of Mac CS at my local liquor store for $55, and i snatched it up. for fun, i reviewed these two side by side, and FWIW, i actually enjoyed the Mac CS a bit more (review soon coming). the abunadh is fantastic, but the Mac CS is a bit more balanced. this batch (#39) of the abunadh is a bit spice/ginger heavy, which can be slightly overpowering. (also, i generally don't add water to sherry bombs). i think other batches of a'bunadh i've tasted were more complete whiskeys, but i don't remember which batches those were. nevertheless, it's a great whisky and i'm glad it is readily available.



Batch 39 - 59.8% ABV

Nose: candied fruit, lemon grass, salt, cloyingly sweet caramel, oranges, chocolate

No hint of the ABV on the nose, but all kinds of delicious just waiting to be found here in my glass

Palate: WOW there's the alcohol, unfortunately too overwhelming to really pick out the elements from the nose, I had to press it

Finish: spices and cranberry

Excellent finish, but on the palate, way too much alcohol to pick anything out when it is taken neat.  

Pressed notes: ~10drops

Nose: more caramel, more salt, orange

Palate: oranges, caramel, spices

Finish: spices, caramel, chocolate dryness

This one, 92/100

A'Bunadh 39

Nose: caramel Palate: caramel Finish: caramel

 



Review #2 - Aberlour A'Bunadh - Batch 36

Color: Wow, this is a beautiful looking whiskey. Turning it around in  the glass, watching the light refract through it.  Medium caramel gold with a slight copper tinge.  It looks lighter, yet still very rich. I almost don't want to drink it so I can keep staring at it.

Nose: definitely some alcohol there, but that to be expected of such a strong whiskey.  Smells amazingly sweet, but not in an overbearing way.  Vanilla, butter, and brown sugar make up the majority of the head.  

I said earlier that it looked rich, well looks have nothing on the nose here.  I feel like I need to be drinking this on a roundish bed while wearing all velvet.  Unfortunately, the best I can do now is put Crown Royal bags on my feet like slippers.

After the initial burst, I can smell small bits of cinnamon and nutmeg, and even caramelized apple.  Basically, apple pie nectar of the gods.

Finally, I'm picking up some darker fruits and yeast on the end.  It reminds me a lot of dark Belgian beers, specifically, Gulden Draak and Monk's Blood (Belgian brewed with cinnamon).

Body: Swirling it around, the first thing I notice is how thick it is, almost like nectar.  The liquid strands running down the side are surprisingly thick for a 60% scotch.  Quite strong and vibrant. I can feel it sparkle down my tongue while warming my whole mouth up. Is this the KY of whiskey? This is no doubt due to the strength.  (This is my first cask strength whiskey, by the way). Slightly oily, but far less so than The Lagavulin 16 from my first review.  

Taste: Mmm, sherry, everywhere.  I first got introduced to sherry casked whiskeys from The Macallan 12, but I enjoyed this richer flavor much more.  The warm butter and brown sugar really flourishes midway through tasting.  I feel like a king drinking this.  It's almost hard to separate flavors as everything is so dense and complex, so I added a bit of water.  Definitely opened it up a lot and allows a rookie like me to pick up on a few new things.  The dark fruit clears up to be raisins, and I'm also noticing a bit of orange zest.

Finish: Seriously impressed by this. It makes my blanket feel like a hot lady, and my space heater feel like a roaring fireplace.  Something that's definitely new to me is actual changes taking place during the finish.  With most whiskeys I've tried before this (granted, most were junk) but they just faded away with the exact same flavors.  I can feel the Aberlour morph and change the longer I hold it in my mouth.  This kind of complexity is pretty alarming in a good way.

I do notice an off taste, though. I can't place it, but it?s familiar.  It's a dry, dusty taste, but beyond that I can't say much more.  I've heard there is some variety in quality between different batches, so this could be the result of that, or the sample container, or the glass I'm using, or just something weird with my tongue today, so I hesitate to knock it too much for this, especially since it's fairly subtle.

Overall: It was nice to try something completely different than The Lagavulin.  I can't say I like one style more than the other, but switching to the near opposite end of the spectrum makes for a great change in sensation.  I did, during this review, take a quick swig of the only other Speyside I had handy, The Glenlivet 12, and it easily surpasses it.  While The Glenlivet tastes fresher and more lively, there's something intoxicating about the the slow sophistication of The Aberlour A'bunadh.  

Rating: 87/100 (If no aftertaste in subsequent tastings, 92/100)



Well, thank you very much. 

Scotch is serious business.



Thanks to strong community recommendations, I bought this A'Bunadh several months ago. Now that it is part of the community review, tally ho!

Batch 41, 59%ABV. Paid $72 +tax about 5 months ago. It's around $85 now.

Nose
1st sniff: Sweet, rich. Butterscotch
2nd: Here comes the sherry, and plenty of it.

Taste
1st taste: At 59% ABV this should overwhelm me, but it doesn't. Just the smell turning into flavor, like liquid aroma.

2nd taste: A Frankie Vallie song in my mouth. SheeEEeeery Ba-ay-be!

Finish
Bordeaux - earthy, sweet slightly tannic if I let it linger on my tongue. I've had most of this bottle by now and I still feel like I need more time with it. 

It's among my favorite drinks ever; it made me want to review Scotch so I can better understand what I am smelling and tasting.

91/100



Aberlour A'bunadh (Batch 37) 59.6% ABV

Copy and pasted from a previous review

Colour: Deep amber.

Nose: Vanilla, fruits and sherry. Very faint peat.

Taste: Salt and pepper, golden syrup, cherries, herbs and spices. Tingly mouthfeel. 

Finish: Citrus rind, honey glazed ham. Maybe a bit too spicy. Long and satifying.

89/100

About $100AUD for 700mL, would buy again.



Aberlour a'Bunadh Batch 30, 59.8% ABV  

Tasted and reviewed at cask strength, without adding water.

Nose: Is that sherry?!?!  Shocking!!!!  I also get some apples and pears, and a little earthiness / faint smoke.

Taste: More sherry.  Sweet, but somewhat savory.  Fruity maltiness, allspice and cloves.

Finish:  Long and sweet.  Sherry, pepper and more sherry.

92/100

I'm an Islay guy through and through, but this and the 12 NCF are two of my favorite non-Islay offerings.  It's a fantastic dram, and you can't beat the 60% ABV at under $50 a bottle.  I'd still think it was worth it if I paid $75-80 (for all you haters).

$47.99 for a 750ml bottle



It's still due on the 3rd, but now people can turn it in early.

totallydidthatonpurpose.jpg





I'll let others chime in because I've only tried the Springbank 12 and the Cask Strength.

If you're anxious about buying a whole bottle, why not see if someone on /r/scotchswap wants to trade samples with you?  I've got plenty that I'm willing to share.



Sorry for the laziness.  I am reposting my initial review.

Aberlour A?bunadh:  Batch 39, 59.8% ABV, Father?s Day Gift.

Color:  Amber +2 with a hint of golden orange glow.  Slow thick tears.

Nose:  Pepper, port wine, raisins, carmel, sweet floral, cocoa, citrus zest.

Mouth Feel/Taste:  Rich and oily.  Hot, black pepper, sherry, bitter dark chocolate, green leafy vegetative, strawberry jam, raisins.

Finish:  Warm, dry with more sherry, mincemeat

With Water:  N:  More pepper, raisins, stronger red wine note.
             T:  The heat is tamed, slight cinnamon candy.

Score:  Taste: 71, Value: 10, Uniqueness:  5,  Buy Again: 3  Total:  89



Doesn't matter: had sex.

Still counts!



Aberlour A'Bunadh - batch 39 (59.8% ABV) - second review

My second whisky review after the Yamazaki community review two months ago, but hopefully I will find the time and motivation to increase my review frequency a bit in 2013.

Overall this is my highest rated unpeated whisky so far (tied with Highland Park 18 but that is lightly peated) and one of the very few unpeated whiskies that has the wow-effect when drinking it. 

91/100 (some reference scores: Aberlour NCF 12: 86. Macallan 10: 84. Highland Park 18: 91. Balvenie Doublewood: 82. Yamazaki 12: 88)





Upon my second dram tonight I got a CRAZY aroma and taste before adding any water.

It was the EXACT same sour cherry note I get from Duchess de Bourgogne. If you have ever had that beer, you will know what I am talking about. Once I added a few drops of water it was gone..... call me crazy, but I'm now drinking a glass of this 59% beast neat and I LOVE IT. Just gained a few points.






Repost my earlier review.

Aberlour A'Bunadh Batch 39

59.8% ABV (119.6 Proof) - ~$60 ($75 after taxes)

Score: 92/100

I like this one a lot, am about 3/4 through the bottle, while it is really strong it is quite enjoyable if you are expecting it. First cask strength I ever tried, excited that they vary per batch and hope to get another at some point. I probably wouldn't suggest this as a first cask strength to most people as I find the Glenlivet Nadurra to be smoother and easier to sip but definitely worth getting.

A little bit extra, since my review 3 months ago I have finished the bottle and would say this is hands down my favorite scotch overall, adding the correct amount of water changes this in such an interesting way its amazing.






Aberlour A'Bunadh Batch 39 with 59.8% ABV and Batch 42 with 60.3% ABV.

Both of them have no age statement, were bottled at cask strength, have no E150 in them and are non chill-filtered.

General tasting notes:

Colour: dark amber, copper

Nose: rich sweetness, dark cherries, vanilla, pastry and pipe tobacco

Taste: sweet intense sherry, spices, oak and a touch of maple syrup

Finish: tingling spices, licorice, dark chocolate and lingering oak, long

With a few teaspoons of water, the spices and the oak become more dominant.

The differences between these two batches are minimal and I don't think I could tell them apart in a blind tasting.
Batch 39 seems to be just a little bit more sour (think of oranges), than batch 42, but that might be due to oxidation.
Therefore I have a general score:

89/100

This is my first bottle of a cask strength whisky and I really enjoy it.
I have noticed a warm sensation on the tounge, when drinking it neat. It isn't hot or peppery, but rather feels like the spirit becomes unusally warm in the mouth. A bit strange at first, but enjoyable!



I'm currently in the process of knocking out reviews of the famous cask strength sherry bombs, a process I thought I'd align with this community review. This sample again comes via the generous UncleTobys.

Aberlour A'bunadh, Batch 37. Speyside single malt, matured in Oloroso sherry casks and bottled without chill filtration or added colour at a cask strength of 59.6% ABV. Local bottle price: $105 for 700mL.

Nose: Syrupy, smooth sherry. Sultanas, malty vanilla, crisp oak, fresh apples.

Palate: Big body, rich winey tannins and dried fruits. 

Finish: Warming, full and long. Toffee, caramel, and again, sultanas/dried cherries. Slight hints of wood smoke towards the end

I think I prefer this to the Glenfarclas 105 I reviewed a few days ago. Excellent whisky.

93/100






Happy Cask Strength New Year! I was pumped for this bottle. And there I was, a few days ago, in 2012, walking into Binny's Beverage Depot expecting to pick up my $60 Batch #Whatever of the delicious Abu Nazir-- er, A'bunadh. And lo! The price is now $75. Eff. That. I got some Caol Ila. So, here are my old notes from Batch 33:  

Nose: spicy! Sherry, toffee, malt, and lemon.  

Taste: powerful creamy raisin-sherry and tart apple.  

Finish: oak, walnuts, and menthol. Water utterly transforms this one from tart to bittersweet.  

Consider my eyes pealed for a cheaper bottle. 89/100



aberlour a'bunadh batch 39, 59.8% ABV

i love a'bunadh - although i love my islay peat bombs, i think it's one of the best, if not the best "bang-for-your-buck" whiskys out there

color: deep amber/caramel

nose: sherry, red fruit, spice, hints of orange, chocolate, caramel

taste: absolute sherry bomb - i love it! orange, chocolate, caramel, a very sweet and pleasant ginger, all sorts of wonderfulness

finish: lingering, intense, spicy yet creamy, bitter sweetness of citrus and red fruit. the interplay is wonderful. it hits all parts of your mouth.

score: 94

on a semi-unrelated note, i saw a bottle of Mac CS at my local liquor store for $55, and i snatched it up. for fun, i reviewed these two side by side, and FWIW, i actually enjoyed the Mac CS a bit more (review soon coming). the abunadh is fantastic, but the Mac CS is a bit more balanced. this batch (#39) of the abunadh is a bit spice/ginger heavy, which can be slightly overpowering. (also, i generally don't add water to sherry bombs). i think other batches of a'bunadh i've tasted were more complete whiskeys, but i don't remember which batches those were. nevertheless, it's a great whisky and i'm glad it is readily available.


Abelour a'Bunadh Batch 39, 59.8% ABV 

Definitely glad to be participating in another community review, I've missed you guys! I had a bit of Christmas money, so I made sure to pick up a bottle of this for myself. The only other Oloroso finish I have is the Lasanta, so here's hoping this is balanced a bit better.

Body and Colour

Nose

Neat: Sherry, spiced fruit, rum raisins, brown sugar. Pleasant, but it can be hard to delve past the alcohol.

Diluted: Brown sugar, raisins, sweet spice (cinnamon, cloves), toffee, sherry. Very pleasant. 

Palate

Neat: Spice! And sherry! There's stewed fruit, which gives way to a slightly smoky, slightly floral taste. Sugar, spice and everything nice. Almost tarts your mouth up as it stays in there.

Diluted: Sherry, ginger, and floral tones, with brown sugar. Some stewed fruit and raisins in there as well.

Finish

Neat: Cinnamon and pepper on the tongue, which builds up and spreads around. Gives way to a nice sherry sweetness. Almost a tannic buzz at the end, which is odd but not unpleasant.

Diluted: Peppery, slightly tart. Sherry and sugar linger on the tongue afterwards, with a nice spice. A slightly smoky/floral taste lingers on. 

Definitely better balanced than the Lasanta is, this one actually doesn't let the sherry overwhelm everything, but instead borrows from it. I get an unusual tannic, tart taste in there which doesn't seem to belong, but doesn't seem unpleasant either. All-in-all, it's nice, with decent complexity. Really, it's everything I think I'd look for in a sherried malt, but it needs to be allowed to open up.

89/100



Aberlour A'bunadh 119.6 proof batch 39

Very much like the Macallan Cask Strength which is a personal favorite.  It has a slightly higher proofage than Macallan as well.  

93/100



From a review I did a few weeks (a month?) ago:

So, I'm new to reviewing scotch. I also rarely drink it due to cost - BC's liquor prices are very high. I didn't see the batch number.

So, because I'm new, this review might not be as exacting as others, or similar. I also only had this as a single from a pub.

Nose: Fruitcake, dried fruits (apricot, raisin, berries), definitely sweet. I'd almost say Christmasy.

Palate: I tried this without watering it down first. Fire, wood, and alcoholic burn. A bit of sweetness. Not good. After watering it down by adding a few teaspoons of water: Ahhh... there we go. The sweetness hits me, and there's a nice burn on my tongue. The fruitcake is there, and there's lots of dried fruits that came from the nose. There's a bit of wheatiness in there, but it's very weak.

Finish: A bit sticky, but in a good way. The flavour lasts a long time, and there's definitely a good warmth. Overall: Smooth, but definitely needs water for it to go down. The sweetness was a bit overpowering at times, actually.

The only other scotch I've had any experience with is the Glenlivet 12, and that had a more floral, crisp fruitiness to it. If I were to compare the two, I'd think of the Glenlivet 12 as early fall, just as things begin to cool down, and the A'bunadh as early winter, when it gets cold but you've got a fireplace going.



Aberlour A'Bunadh Batch 38, 60.3% ABV

Neat  

Nose: Sugar and spice, and everything nice. But mostly spice.
Palate: Very very cinnamony, as if you melted some cinnamon hearts in a pot and added some moonshine. Also minor hints of seared brown sugar. Not as fruity as I'd expect at first, but be patient with it and allow the flavour time to open on its own and you'll find a melange of apricot, apple, pears and finally raisins. At this point the high alcohol content starts to burn too much and I have to move on. I can see how adding some water would help with this one to bring out those fruits earlier.
Finish: Cinnamon or alcohol - depending on how long you swish it around.  

92/100  

Quite fantastic. The way it changes from one extreme (spice) to another (fruits) if you give it the time is quite incredible to experience.



Color:  Amber + 4

Nose (Neat):  Vanilla cake, butter frosting, pralines, molasses, rich dark fruits, orange zest, raisins, and a touch of cranberry cocktail

Taste (Neat):  Packs a punch.  A hot buttery frosting that coats the tongue.  Hints of orange, cherry cordial, and pecans.  A bit hot for me at around 60%!

Added a dollop of water and thoroughly enjoyed the highland mist build in this dark sherried malt.

Nose (Water):  A bit more winey with a bouquet of fruits.  Apple, watermellon, cherry, strawberry and banana.

Taste (Water):  Smooth and buttery.  Tons of sherried sweetness with cinnamon, cherry cordial, apricot and berries.

Finish:  Warm buttered toast with jam.  Pralines/pecans and a touch of brown sugar.

Final notes:  A very nice sherry monster, one that practically coins the term.  The cask strength seemed different for a sherry monster at first but as I've had the bottle opened it's really been nice to experiment with different strengths.  The more concentrated notes have more butter and nuttiness that as you dilute it gets fruity and finally quite cinnamony.  Take your time, too.  Closed it's just too buttery with nothing else, and this is lovely for dessert or mingling.  Enjoy!

Final score:  90/100



Since I have become such an Aberlour ( mouth of the chattering stream ) fan, I thought I would do a cross expression review.  Two new reviews:  The A?bunadh and the 12 year old Non Chill Filtered, and a link to my previous review of the 12 YO Double Cask.

Aberlour A?bunadh:  Batch 39, 59.8% ABV, Father?s Day Gift.

Color:  Amber +2 with a hint of golden orange glow.  Slow thick tears.

Nose:  Pepper, port wine, raisins, carmel, sweet floral, cocoa, citrus zest.

Mouth Feel/Taste:  Rich and oily.  Hot, black pepper, sherry, bitter dark chocolate, green leafy vegetative, strawberry jam, raisins.

Finish:  Warm, dry with more sherry, mincemeat

With Water:  N:  More pepper, raisins, stronger red wine note.
             T:  The heat is tamed, slight cinnamon candy.

Score:  Taste: 71, Value: 10, Uniqueness:  5,  Buy Again: 3  Total:  89

This is a very intense dram.  A lot of flavor and overall a very good scotch.  A bit spicy due to it?s high ABV but it mellows out nicely with water.  The more time you give it the more it opens.   My chief negative marks are:  no statement on coloring, It?s a little pricy and sometimes hard to find.  Compared to CS Macallan, a bit more rough around the edges and also no age statement, but very much worth purchase for a special event, especially for us sherry scotch fans.  Depending on the day, I could add or subtract an overall point or two.

Aberlour Non Chill Filtered:  12 yo, 48% ABV, $65 Superior Liquors

Color:  Amber +2 again with Golden Orange hue.  Thick Tiers, sticks to the glass.

Nose:  Very balanced, barley malt, Fruit ( red apples) sherry oak cask, red wine, blackberries, cinnamon, coconut.

Mouth Feel/Taste:  Smooth and balanced, not to heavy or oily.  Warm, smooth, honey, syrup, malt, strawberries, fresh fruit, cinnamon, fennel seed.  

Finish:  Again well balanced warmth, Sherry comes out more, strawberries and cocoa.

Water:  N:  Sweet, more fruit and floral
           T:   Honey almonds and berries

Score:  Taste: 73, Value: 12, Unique: 5, Buy Again:4 Total:  94
And the link for the 12 Double Cask:  Just to tie it all together.   

In my opinion and from what I have had to this point, this is one of the best of the sherried Scotch distilleries out there I have tried.  I think they all rank very close (if not better in some cases) to most of the Macallan offerings but often at a better price.  I personally feel this distilleries? expressions is one of the best values available.  Again my only real complaints lie in if they use coloring, and as tasty as the NCF is compared to the 12 YO Double Cask, I feel they could save time and perhaps money by skipping the filtration.  But hey that?s my 2 cents.  In the meantime I recommend picking up a bottle from this distillery if you have not as of yet.  



Nice review! My bottle of A'bunadh 39 is very tasty. I scored it just as you did and had similar notes. 

You really love the 12 DC though! It is definitely more noticeably whisky than the over-the-top Oloroso A'Bunadh.



Thank you.  I do like the Aberlour offerings so far, even the 12 DC is good stuff IMO.  I would like to dig deeper into some of their other expressions. 

Edit:  Read your review, nice review.  Your notes are very similar to mine, nice detail!











Aberlour A'bunadh 119.6 proof batch 39

Very much like the Macallan Cask Strength which is a personal favorite.  It has a slightly higher proofage than Macallan as well.  

93/100
