ROUND TWO - Session Three - a more or less Island selection

REVIEW #58: AnCnoc 16 year - 46% abv 

Nose: vanilla frosting, yellow cake, macadamia nut, white chocolate, sugar cookie, mint, citrus mix, fruitcake spices, candied orange, cinnamon, pear, sour apple, brine, tea

Taste: sweet, bitter, oak, oily, mouth coating, crushed red pepper, confection, fruitcake, spices, dried fruits, candied orange

Finish: lemon rind, honey, peppery spiciness, lemon drop cookie. herbs

Score: 88/100

Buy a full bottle? No

Closing Thoughts: This one is noticeably darker in flavor and aroma than the 12 year, but it?s still really difficult to figure out.  Complicated.  Too complicated for me.




I must say you make me doubt my bottle of Springbank 12 CS. Although it's a different batch, your notes are similar to what I experience. It's kinda sweet/sour/bitter and the only aroma I can identify is akin to damp earth or wet dirt.

At first I thought maybe its not for me but perhaps I got a bad bottle, that'll be hard to know.



This is: AnCnoc 16, the bigger brother, which I had at the bar. ?

46% ABV ?

Color: light gold. ?

Nose: fresh... Very floral, with additional malt, pear, and oak. ?

Taste: bitter... Tannins galore, with oak and cocoa. ?

Finish: sweet & oaky... Honey, vanilla, caramel, toasty malt, and rich oak at the end. ?

Conclusions: what I expected as a step-up from AC12: four extra, tastable years and +3% ABV, but essentially the same, although it is less nutty. Maybe comparable to Macallan 15 Fine Oak? Quite good! ?

88/100



Thanks for the reviews.  Unfortunately I believe the 16yr has been discontinued, at least in the U.S.

For my tastes, they are very different.  The 16yr is 100% bourbon barrel aged, unlike the rest of the line-up.  So it's much more subtle and austere, more like a Balvenie 15yr Single Barrel or Glenlivet 16yr Nadurra IMO.  I don't get much caramel and toasted notes in the 16yr, but perhaps that's just me.  It's also non-chillfiltered, and so it has a very creamy mouthfeel--it's one of the few single malts I've seen that's slightly milky-colored even at room temp and at 46%!  Note, the 12yr is also colored and the 16yr isn't.  

Glad you enjoyed both!



anCnoc 16yr.

46% ABV

Nose: A barley rich nose, that is both sweet and tangy.  Creamy vanilla and feeling of wind swept coastal grass.  A very robust nose with spicy saltiness.  Notes of lemon tea and buscuits.  Similar in style to the 12yr., but amped up a notch or two.

Taste: The salty spiciness present in the nose works its way into the arrival as well.  It then sweetens with barley, citrus and faint vanilla.  More green apple, clove and a faint detection of oak.  Some good quality bourbon casks in effect.

Finish: A slightly shorter finish than the 12 yr. anCnoc, but not unpleasant. Sweet and savory.  The barley and spice dominate.  A hint of mint creeps in near the end.  It may be a shorter finish, but it has more depth to it and more substance to it on the palate vs. the 12 yr. anCnoc

It shares many of the qualities that make the 12 yr. anCnoc an exceptional whisky.  However, the craft presentation (non-chill filtered, natural color) in the 16yr. most definitely helps elevate the experience. To me, the non-chill filtration and higher ABV. helps particularly in the finish.  It gives the finish more life and a more substance and mouth feel over the 12 yr.

90/100



I got soooo close to buying the 12 the other day but instead chose compass box great king street blend. And while its good, I cant help but regret not picking up the 12. 

Nice review. 



AnCnoc 16 Year ? 46%, $50

Nose: Floral caramels, Sweet honey and spun sugar, malt, oaky spice.

Taste: Very sweet malt, sugar cereal, fruity spice. Light to medium mouthfeel.

Finish: Turns to bitter honey malt, then the bitter fades after a little while and the sweet malt stays. 

Notes: I?ve been enjoying the 12 year and this is just like it but bolder and more full flavored. I?m on the fence if it?s worth the price difference to completely abandon the 12. This however is a good drink either way. 

86/100



I've heard AnCnoc makes a lovely summer dram, and it's a lovely summer day so what better way to enjoy it than by trying two new expressions up on my rooftop deck. Thanks to /u/Mr_dkatz for the sample of the 12 year and /u/thatguy142 for the sample of the 16 year. 

AnCnoc 16

Strength: 46%

Color: It might be a trick of the light through a different glass, but this looks slightly lighter than the 12. Straw gold. 

Nose: The nose is more reserved, perhaps this one does need time to open up. Floral notes are predominant, spring flowers, light lemony citrus, and ocean air. Given time to breath, tart apples and pears come forward. 

Palate: A little less sweet and more dry and tart than the 12. The malt flavors are stronger and heavier, like multigrain bread. Salty sea air and faint brine. 

Finish: Warmer and stronger than it's younger sibling. The oak is more noticeable, with lemon and pie crust. Some bitter tannins arrive at the very end. 

Summary: The 16 is certainly more nuanced and complex than the 12, but this is one of those cases where I think it works against it. Perhaps it just isn't giving me as much of the summery vibe as the 12. In either case, it's still a very nice dram, but not as unique perhaps. 

Score: 85/100 

Scotch Reviews #36 & 37

Whisky Reviews #52 & 53



It's pricey indeed and I've never spent that much on a bottle.  There are plenty of amazing NAS bottles for less.  But 200? for a 35 year old ain't bad.  Here's one I spotted for ?2000

http://imgur.com/yOjrSV3



To be fair, there's plenty of people who would pay that for a 37 year old Lagavulin, considering their core range is pretty fucking limited.

I wouldn't, but I'm not that big of a Lagavulin fan.



Greetings Scotchit! My policy on mystery samples is pretty simple: Thou must reviewest it as quickly as possible. So without further ado, this is a mystery sample from /u/krisjoon. What is it, and is it any good?

Let's find out!

???
???, 60ml sample from /u/krisjoon

Nose: Highlandy. Apples and pears. Malty. Floral, perfumey. Lemon peel. With time, some pepper.

Delicate on the nose, but most likely still around 46%. 

Taste: Soft, creamy mouthfeel. Delicate. Malt. Apples. Lemon peel. With time, more bitter.

Quite soft, but creamy enough that I think this is 46%. Probably not much higher, though.

Finish: Medium length. Oak. Pepper. Malty. Apples. Citrus.

More of the same, really. No real surprises, perhaps a bit more spicy than on the palate.

Summary: What can I really guess based off this? Not a whole lot in terms of nailing down a specific expression.

It's Scotch. It's matured in bourbon casks. Probably a Highland or Speyside. The distillery's name probably starts with Glen. It's probably 10 to 12 years old. I also expect that it's an OB instead of an IB.

So based off all that, I really haven't narrowed it down a whole lot. Glenturret, Glencadam, Glen Garioch, Glenrothes, etc. etc.

It's quite good, though, even though I rarely find myself very drawn to this profile.

Score: 80/100
Decent.

Most Similar To: Glenmorangie 10, Glen-something 12.

Buy Again? Probably not, no.



AnCnoc 16yo. 46%  

nice review, you were pretty much spot on on everything.    

I looked through your review archive and wanted to give you something you have not reviewed yet. There were not many options! I feel really similar to you on this one. i think its a really well made quality SM but maybe a bit boring. i like it but rarely find myself reaching for it. i got the bottle as a gift, and would not have regretting buying a bottle, but probably will not buy another.   

cheers! ill try to do your mystery soon as well! 



Makes sense, too many choices though.

A bit off on the age, but a bunch of refill casks could do that. 

Thanks for the dram! It was good, not great, as I said. 



anCnoc 16, 46% ABV

Sample courtesy of Hello_Nasty.

Nose: Honeyed malt. Toffee apple. Ripe citrus and canned apricots. Dry oak. Vanilla sponge cake with double cream. Grassy and floral. 

Taste: Medium-full bodied, tangy and briny. Apple cider. Cayenne and chilli. Toasted cereal and dried apricot. Fresh mulberries. Sweet grapefruit and rockmelon. Peppery and slightly herbal. Deep, rich flavours.

Finish: Honey roasted nuts. Candied orange peel and ginger. Salty and grassy. Spicy oak. Faint liquorice. Medium-long and pleasant.

I am not a fan of the 12 which is bottled at 40% ABV here in Oz. I gave it 76/100 and found it pretty boring.

This one is a lot better. The 4 additional years in the barrel and higher ABV have added body, flavour and depth to the spirit. I especially enjoyed the spiciness on the palate, and the balance between salty and sweet. Great stuff!

90/100

Review 107



Hi Scotchit! The whisky that comes from Knockdhu distillery is called anCnoc, it was renamed in 1994 to avoid confusion with Knockando. Huh.

anCnoc 16

Speyside, 46%

Non chill-filtered.

color: pale straw (natural color)

nose: grapefruit, pineapple, vanilla, canned apricots, oak, grass

taste: flour, vanilla, lemon, green apples, oak, grass, canned apricots

finish: grassy, drying, spices and licorice

Light and fruity nose. Fresh and not overly sweet on the palate. Typical american white oak influence, reminds me a bit of the Ealanta. Lingering finish.

A summer dram, but with more complexity and depth than the 12 yo. Thank you again /u/thatguy142 for the sample.

87/100



A summer dram, but with more complexity and depth than the 12 yo. Thank you again /u/thatguy142 for the sample.

I agree.  I think this is a big step up from the 12 year which I did not really care for.



AnCnoc is a distillery owned by Inver House Distillers, who also bring us Old Pulteney. The distillery is also known as KnockDhu, but is called AnCnoc to avoid confusion with the Knockando distillery. To the best of my knowledge, this is on it?s way off the market, being replaced by an 18 yo at a substantially higher price. Thanks to /u/peatreek for the sample.

16 years old. 46% abv.

Nose - Vanilla, honey, lots of green apples, ginger, black pepper, lemon, hints of caramel or toffee in the background. Seems to be primarily bourbon cask matured. Similar profile to many other malts out there (though a bit more towards the spicy side), but still, a well executed version of it.

Palate - Honey, vanilla, apples/apple pie filling, lemon, ginger, black pepper. Medium body, somewhat viscous. Very nicely full flavored - the 46% has certainly done this whisky well. The sweet, citrus and spice elements play well off each other here.

Finish - Lemon, apple pie filling, ginger, and black pepper. Stays spicy and citrusy the longest. There?s a faint woodiness here that gets a bit drying.

I really like this one - it does a very nice job of showcasing what bourbon cask maturation can bring, and it brings more to the table than your average overfiltered Glenwhatever with the nice citrus and spice notes. It reminds me of the old Balvenie 15 Bourbon Cask quite a bit, which is a good thing. The only knock I have on this is the slight drying note on the finish I mention...I really wish this was still semi-readily available for $60.

88/100



Actual first Scotch review of 2016! Yay!

Oh? No one cares? It's an arbitrary date in time that really means very little and I'm happy due to being on vacation? Okay then.

There are some whiskies out there that are consistently offered up as recommendations. On here it would be Laphroaig Quarter Cask, Alberta Premium Dark Horse, Buffalo Trace, Yamazaki 12, and probably others I'm forgetting.

Out in the rest of the world it would seem to be made up of those as well, and anCnoc 16, which has shown up in 3 of my whisky books. 

So I searched it out. And the LCBO delivered! With a Pony and Ice Cream and heaps and heaps of Gum Drop Sarcasm Hats!

So I searched some more. Finally I just gave up and bought a sample from MoM, because I had friends coming into town and thought it made sense.

This one is made by a distillery I never spell correctly and have alienated people discussing it, but named anCnoc to confuse me and me specifically. It's matured in ex-bourbon barrels.

So, now that I've finally found this one... let's see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Highland

Abv: 46%

Colour: 5Y 9/4

Nose: Pineapple, sea air, mango, smoke, thyme

The one thing I usually find missing from Highlands is a pair of nuts. And I'm happy for that, because it would be insane to have testicles as part of whisky.

Granted I may be writing about Anthropomorphic whisky again.

In all seriousness, this has very strong, nice flavours. Herbal notes, nice sea air, and some saltiness mixed with the tropical fruits. It's a good time.

Taste: Smoke, mango, chocolate, cereal, caramel, orange

More smoke, and a good amount of sweetness in this one. I now really want to have chocolate mango candies, however I'm trying to tame my sweet tooth moving forward.

Damn fat ass.

Finish: Pineapple, cinnamon, white chocolate, wheat, pepper, plum

Long, long, very super long finish. Probably one of the best finishes I've had all year (tee hee). In all seriousness though, it's a well put together finish.

No complex flavours on this one, however it goes for so long that I give it bonus marks.

Conclusion: A solid, solid dram. Really good. Didn't set off memories or have super complex notes, however it's well balanced, has a good mouth feel, is tasty, and nice to drink.

Honestly, this should be a staple of anyone trying a nice whisky. A must buy, solid dram.

Solid.

84/100

Scotch review #401, Highland review #78, Whisky Network review #615

1001 Whiskies to taste before you die review #268

101 Whiskies to try before you die review #64

Other anCnoc reviews:

anCnoc 12

anCnoc Cutter

anCnoc Peter Arkle Limited Edition 2nd Release

Link to my website with all my reviews



Had a sample of this last week or so, and on its strength I went out looking for a bottle.  Whereuponce (which is a contraction of the words where, upon, whence, and Wu-Tang) I learned that the 16 has a smaller production than the other OBs, and another release will likely happen in the spring.

So I bought the anCnoc 18.  It is also tasty, but I'm not sure it's that different from the 16.  Maybe a little more cereal richness and less smoke, if any, and a quicker finish.



At none of them. Thus I put down Price: N/A at the LCBO at the top.

I bought it from Masters of Malt and friends of mine brought it into the country. Thus why I showed a picture of a small bottle of Masters of Malt.



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.36   

Standard Deviation = 10.22  

Skewness = -2.62295 

Kurtosis = 10.22994 

Median = 80 

IQR = 9



I got a bottle of anCnoc Cutter for my birthday and it was quite excellent. Made me feel like I'd been in a fight with an alcoholic ashtray, which strangely enough is precisely what I like in a peaty Highland. Or any whisky west of speyside. 

My favourite though is Flaughter, which I was fortunate to drink at a whisky weekender in London. Absolutely beautiful mix of sweet and peat. Give it a go if you can find it. 



Data for the last 949 comments for /u/tomodera (MAX 1000)

To summon this bot, the first line of your comment should be: /u/user_history_bot @USERNAME



Data for the last 994 comments for /u/slanderousu (MAX 1000)

To summon this bot, the first line of your comment should be: /u/user_history_bot @USERNAME



Data for the last 994 comments for /u/user_history_bot (MAX 1000)

To summon this bot, the first line of your comment should be: /u/user_history_bot @USERNAME



Data for the last 961 comments for /u/muaddib99 (MAX 1000)

To summon this bot, the first line of your comment should be: /u/user_history_bot @USERNAME
