My tasting notes from 2nd night of this bottle, finding that my first impressions hold true. Basic run down, if you missed it, is that this is Ardbeg but they added some toasted barrel heads. How'd it come out?

Appearance: Not as light as the Ardbeg 10, more golden tint, slow forming curtains of tears (they also made the inside of the box gold, fwiw)

Nose: Tarry, with some definite cinnamon. The way the spice presents reminds me of Mexican hot chocolate. Toasty vanilla & cinnamon with a backbone of salty smoke and a hint of tarragon.

Palate: Sweet smoke upon entry, tarry smoke & vanilla develop together, chai spice on the exit. Really smooth and not hot at all for 49.9% abv.

Finish: Trailing smoke and vanilla/cinnamon, nice warm feeling, somewhat sweet & somewhat dry

Sum-Up: I think Ardbeg definitely delivered on this whisky. and I was surprised to find it matched their description. It reads as a modified Ardbeg 10. Not as sweet, the sugar a little more developed & caramelized, with some extra spice and vanilla notes that do temper the smoke. As usual with the one-off releases, it does bring something unique to the table, and shows a bit of a reduced smoke profile. Is it better than 'Vrecken, or Oogie? Probably not, but if you really enjoy Ardbeg as I do, and are willing to shell out for a new taste, it's a winner. Happy I got one bottle, undecided if I'd get a second, similar to my feelings on Ardbog & Galileo. I rate it a definite B+, 88/100. Possible you'll enjoy this more if a bourbon drinker









I sent out a bunch of mystery samples recently, expecting to see the posts coming today. In the return packages, I received two (thus far) Posting those here for your enjoyment! This one just arrived today, why not crack open a mystery sample to celebrate happy hour on mystery sample day? Here we go....

Initial Impressions: Sherried Islay

Nose: a wee bit of that Islay iodine, but this is not at all what I was initially thinking. Oak, raisins, fairly high ABV. Honey, pepper, and a touch of acetone.

Mouthfeel: thin, dry, but not unpleasantly so

Taste: oak, pepper, some medicinal plastic like a highland. Butterscotch, sawdust, orange zest, maybe a few cherries, grapes, or plums in a bed of straw with the funky notes drifting away as I progress.

Finish: hot! black pepper spice! Medium length alcohol burn, then tanic oak aftertaste, with sweetness intruding.

Decent. But my socks were not knocked off. Above average, but not truly good is a B-. 

Score: 80/100

And now the hard part. I have absolutely no idea what this is. I can't get past the very subtle Islay notes though, and so a cursory search in /r/scotch has given me a viable guess of...

Official Guess: Bruichladdich The Laddie 10

Would I buy it again? Depends on price. Awaiting reveal for further info... Paging /u/tvraisedme!





Greetings Scotchit! Time for a whisky that seemingly everyone has reviewed so far. Except me! 

It's this year's Ardbeg Feis Ile release, the Auriverdes. Check the album for some pics of the Finnish (very low key) Ardbeg Day events. Anyway, I tried the Auriverdes then and as a result decided not to buy a bottle. Has my opinion changed and do I regret not getting one?

Let's find out!

Ardbeg Auriverdes
Islay, 49.9% ABV, NCF, NCA, 60ml sample

Nose: Familiar, like Ardbeg 10. Ashy peat. Somewhat harsh alcohol. Vanilla. Cocoa. Charcoal. Coffee beans. Brine.

This one can best be described as Ardbeg 10 But. And the Buts aren't necessarily all that flattering either... More on that in the summary.

Taste: Strong peat. White wine. Ashes. Medicinal smoke. Iodine and brine.  Espresso. Raw chocolate. Slightly bitter. Caramel. 

Again, very much like the Ardbeg 10. More ashes, more bitter/savoury notes. On the palate, more medicinal than Ardbeg usually is, apart from maybe the Corryvreckan.

Finish:  Long and quite strong. Medicinal and woody. More ashes. Wood splinters. Caramel. White wine. Cocoa. Asphalt. 

Lots and lots of peat here, peatiest of the lot. 

Summary: So yeah, Ardbeg 10 But... it smells younger, more medicinal, rawer. But on that other hand, that's not necessarily a bad thing. Actually, come to think of it, it's quite a Laphroaig-y whisky. Not quite on par with Laphroaig 10 CS, but very few things are. 

Do I regret not picking this up? Not really. It's pretty decent, and I don't subscribe to the Auriverdes Haters' mail list, but it pales in comparison to Alligator or Uigeadail. Should it have been the annual release? I don't think so. The annual release is meant for craziness, not just mildly toasting the lids of a few hundred casks. 

If you want something similar, I recommend picking up Laphroaig 10 CS. It's probably the same price or cheaper.

Score: 81/100
Not special.

Most Similar To: Laphroaig 10 CS, Lagavulin 12.

Buy Again? Can't, but won't hunt it down.



Ardbeg Auriverdes - 49.9% ABV

Nose: Sea salt, red berries, and just a hint of smoke.  Very subdued nose

Palate: Medium oily body.  Lighter than Uigeadail or Ardbeg Day.  Red fruits, a hint of coffee, some peat and smoke.  Saltiness.

Finish: Nice and long but less sweet than Uigeadail.  BBQ smoke and char.

Score: 90/100

I really like this whisky.  I'd put it at the same level as the 2012 Ardbeg Day.  I'm surprised it gets so much hate, but I guess when its compared with Uigeadail, it doesn't look so good.  Its much more subtle than any other Ardbeg I've ever had, but the complexity is quite wonderful.



The reviews I read on here before weren't exactly glowing.  Ranging from either bad to lackluster.  Here are a few snippets I copy/pasted:

"Galileo was better even, this dethroned as my worst Ardbeg"

"Thus, this isn't a bad whisky, however there's better peated and unpeated whisky out there."

"Well then, not what I was expecting. Compared to other Ardbegs, this is ridiculously tame."

"This isn?t great. This is like Ardbeg 10 without the fire and Uig without the belly."

"Whatever the case, if this is the future of Ardbeg it's time to find a new Islay king."

Good thing we all can have different opinions.  I totally dig this stuff.  :)



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with a review and comparison of some Ardbegs.  Not quick this time.  Much like my Macallan 25 review comparison, I found this to be the best way to know whats what.  

Auriverdes has just got to shelves and I know a lot of you are curious like I have been.  With so-so reviews I was skeptical, but I enjoy Ardbeg and if nothing else, at least I can echo what others have said or express my thoughts on it for you fine folks.  $99 I spent on Ardbeg Auriverdes 49.9% abv

One quick thing I want to explain or define before the meat here:  Tight:  I've been using this term to describe flavor.  I can't find a better word to describe some palates.  What does it mean for me?  the Opposite of Savory.  it means quick flavor that stays together in small area, instead of savory that lasts a while and melts in your mouth.  Does that make sense?  ok, on to the review:

Ardbeg Auriverdes

Color:  golden

Nose: bourbony straw smoke.  Oak ash/ cigar ash.  Toffee and vanilla grain.  Salt and pepper steak. 

Taste: carmelly smokey oily peaty oak.  As expected of course.  A bit immature/harsh.  Soft grain tones, with burnt honey, olive oil, and some bitter coffee grounds.

Finish: tight

Okay well.. before my thoughts, I went and did a side by side to really get the most out of it.  I set up Alligator, Uigeadail, 10 year and Ardbog - went back and forth with noses and palates.  I could have done more but that wouldnt have worked as well.  (too much to muddle) Want to hear about the colors of all of them?  me neither.

*I did not look at any of my past reviews when doing the side by side.

in a sidebyside certain things come out cleaner in each, notes that are way more apparent in contrast.  

Comparison: 

Alligator, a little more muted than AV on the nose.  But this might be due to oxygenation.  I've had the bottle for years now and recently decanted it.  Hard to say for sure because once you've had your first Islay of the night the rest have less and less peat/smoke.  Alligator is smoother, bourbon like, AV is more pasture/straw. 

Palate is savorier on the Alligator.  Feels more oily/mature.  Alligator has good fruit to it too in comparison.  No real fruit in AV. 

Uigeadail, again AV has a more fragrant nose, but it is newly opened so theres that.  Against oog the coffee on the nose of AV comes out.  Red fruits come out of the Oog.  Strawberries.  More musk on the AV and more saline than Oog.  Oog nose sweeter savorier. 

Palate for oog has great complexity to it; the AV has more pepper.  Oog coats way better to AV?s thinness. ah ha,  AV doesn?t have the viscosity in comparison.  AV is ashier, thinner, watery, doesn't coat really at all. 

10year, the 10 is more to the point with smoke/peat.  Amazingly I can still smell that at this point.  Coffee again comes out on the AV in comparison.   10 saltier which is interesting because the AV had more vs the Gator. 

Palate against the ten, I almost want to say the AV tastes like a cheaper blend at high strength.  Oregano pops out of the 10 side by side, herbal.  These are similar, but even against the 10, the AV is thinner.  Waterier despite the higher proof.  I'm not an age snob but you can really see the maturity level just isnt there on the AV.

Ardbog ? savory nose, vs AV?s tight nose. No surprise there, but at this point now, cant tell much else.

Palate: vs Bog I get some sweetness shining in the AV.  Yet its still thin.  Not a fan of the thin.  Which is more Astringent?, the AV.  Again, the AV just feels immature and weak

Very interesting.  And guess what, I look back at my notes today and thats exactly how I scored all of them. 

Conclusion:  don't buy the Auriverdes, as others have warned, unless you want an inferior bottle of whisky to others in their own line that costs more than most of them.

If you do buy it, its still okay stuff, just not better than anything I've had by them.  Its thin, tight, weak, and just inferior to most Ardbegs.  They toasted the lids?  cant really tell.  Spice Tree does that and it works way better. 

If you're a collector, I know you'll still ignore most reports and buy it like I did.  I had to though, because... science...for you guys!

Auriverdes Score:

83/100

Galileo was better even, this dethroned as my worst Ardbeg




Informative, illuminating, enlightening.

Tragic. (The "*no scarf" was like a knife through my heart. :/)

I've only tried one release in the Ardbeg lineup (Ten), but that'll be changing in about a week on Ardbeg day. I own an unopened bottle of Ardbog, and I'm planning to pick up a bottle of Auriverdes unless I absolutely don't like it.

But with each successive review I read, my desire to own a bottle of it wavers further and further.

You've given me (and probably the majority of /r/Scotch) some food for thought. Thanks for doing the comparison.

--EDIT--
Oh yeah, killer photography by the way. Those photos are gorgeous.



I suppose they made it as an experiment, but they're not going to dump it in the drain.

Indeed not. These are the people (Glenmorangie Plc) who screwed up by combining a batch of old Ardbeg with a tanker of crappy young Glen Moray and came up with the bright idea of selling it as a special blend called "Serendipity."



Thanks for the ongoing reviews, tex. I only have 10, corry, and oog, but my preference is right on point with your scores. 

...Looks like I need to get me some Supernova



This is awesome info. Still, I don't know that I like to rank Ardbegs like a competition. I think of them like my children. One might be slow witted, but very handsome. Another all brains but looks like they took a beating with the ugly stick. I love them all for different reasons.

I tried the Auriverdes next to the ten at Ardbeg Day and I thought it was quite good. It tasted different/good enough to warrant purchasing the bottle. The last thing I wanted was a bottle that tasted just like another of their expressions. 



Oh, hi! I didn't hear sneak you in. Well you caught me, I'm enjoying

Ardbeg Auriverdes

Islay, 49.9%

color: light gold

nose: peat smoke, lemon rind, tar, machine room, gooseberries, licorice, hint of smoked ham

taste: peat smoke, lemon drops, vanilla, bacon, mocha, hint of licorice, salt

finish: soft

The finish is lame, yes. Surprisingly little smoke and oumph for an Ardbeg at almost 50% vol. YES. I know many of you don't like it very much because it seems tame. YES. Sure, it is not a peat monster, the peat is one note out of many but it's very well integrated. And I'm prepared for the downvotes: I like it. It's well balanced, palatable and dangerously drinkable. Perfectly fine imo, yees, lacking in the finish, so it's not 90+.

89/100



I do like my peaty whiskies. So obviously Ardbeg is one of my favourite distilleries (let's just ignore the little hiccup that was perpetuum and hope it doesn't happen again). A few weeks ago one of the big whisky bloggers here in Israel (This is his blog) said he'd be having a tasting of Ardbeg special releases, so I was there like a shot. The tasting was held at a Bavarian pub, one of the owners is a big whisky fan and gourmet chef, so there was some excellent food too.

The lineup was as follows: Ardbeg 10, Uigeadail, Alligator, Galileo, Ardbog and Auriverdes. The 10 and the oogie were provided by Glenmo's importer here (they don't supply Corry yet, but they just took over the brand from a very shitty importer and have already dropped prices to a reasonable level, so hopefully they will soon), the special releases were from said bloggers personal collection. I didn't take notes for the 10 and the Oogie as I've reviewed them before on here. Also forgive me but no notes on Alcohol percentages, but all cask strength, NCA, NCF.

So apparently Ardbeg makes mistakes every so often (side-eyeing Galileo), but on the whole they make some solid stuff. I really liked the Ardbog, kind of like the Oogie kicked up a notch. The 10 was actually also one of my favourites as I just really like the regular Ardbeg profile. To be honest if they'd just release the 3 core expressions they'd do great. Awesome evening all in all.



You nailed my exact thoughts on Galileo. Didn't care for it at all.

The brief sample I had of Ardbog though made me want a lot more. Found it sitting somewhere between Uig and Corry.

Nice write up.



Ardbeg.

Now, when that name is put up anywhere, just by itself, we gush over it here at /r/Scotch like a specialty porn star.

And it's not really a surprise. They make amazing stuff. It's peaty, it's finished well, and they even have NAS product that we enjoy. 

So when I decided to go forth with this limited edition review bonanza, I didn't know how it would turn out. Would I end up fanboying all over the place? Would my credibility take another Tobermory-like hit? Am I insane for wondering if I had any left to begin with?

Also, have I beaten the multireview format to death? Hopefully not, this is the first of many I have planned for the next while.

Well, we'd have to see.

Ardbeg distillery is off a small cove on the south coast of Islay. Before 1815, it was a smugglers paradise. However as they croaked, seeing themselves in peat smoke, they became the distillery that little brewers wanna be like, and because their so good, we're on our knees in the night says prayers in the street light.

Let's get this out of the way first:

Region: Islay

Starting off, thanks to /u/texacer for the swap of this dram. I know it took a lot to finally agree to swap with me.

The 2014 Limited Edition release for Ardbeg Day was Ardbeg Auriverdes. Aged in American white oak ex-Bourbon barrels, shipped over from (big surprise) the US, the heads removed and replaced with new American oak heads made for them under a secret toasting regime. 

Does "Secret Toasting Regime" sound like what pot heads do before coming to school?

Anyway, this is a cask strength Ardbeg NAS that is blended with the above and Ardbeg from 1st and 2nd fill Bourbon barrels.

Oh, and it's named for Green and Gold. Because honestly, finding the above was pulling teeth, but I was told about 3000 times that the name means green and gold and that's the colours of Brasil.

Fuck sake people, we're whisky drinkers, not kindergartners. I don't need to be told about football.

Anyway, let's see how this year's experiment turned out.

Price: N/A in Ontario... yet.

Abv: 49.9%

Colour: Light pee

Nose: Sweet peat, pear, licorice, nutmeg, campfire

Starts out with a sweeter peat than I'm used to, and a little less strong than past cask strength Ardbeg's I've had. Each flavour is easy to pick out and individual. The Bourbon casks have added a vanilla sweetness that has blended into it.

However I wish it was stronger.

Taste: Strawberry, peat, anise, butter, salami, peanut oil, cocoa

The peat takes second fiddle here. Overall it has some interesting flavours, yet they are so weak my dead grandparents could take it in a fight. And win.

Don't get me wrong; this could be interesting without the peat, yet it's not stepping up, and is quite watery.

Finish: Mushroom, chocolate, peanut, caramel, salty, sesame, curry powder.... smoke

Finally, something I can sink my teeth into. A lot of Canadian-Chinese flavours here, and a nice amount of earth mixed in too. Lasts a moderate amount of time as well.

Conclusion: So... what is this, really? Let's take a step away, pretend there's no peat, and pretend this isn't Ardbeg.

It had a weak nose, with some elements that tried. The flavour wasn't strong enough to really evoke the complexity that a NAS Special edition whisky should have. The finish was earthy, sweet, complex, and moderate. 

Thus, this isn't a bad whisky, however there's better peated and unpeated whisky out there.

77/100

So back in 2012, when we were young but not so much kids, Ardbeg sent some new-make spirit up into space to age the first ever inter-stellar whisky.

And I couldn't be happier. That's just cool, by itself.

This isn't that whisky. Let's get that RIGHT out of the way. This is just a tribute. They couldn't release the Greatest inter-stellar whisky in the world, no no. This is a Tribute, oh, to the Greatest inter-stellar whisky in the world.

And the peculiar thing is this my friends: the whisky they made in that fateful never ending night? It doesn't actually taste anything like this whisky

And holy shit, it actually has an age and easy to find information. What a crazy time 2012 was. 

Ardbeg Galileo is a 12 year old whisky that was matured in both ex-Marsala and ex-Bourbon barrels.

Quick bias warning: I have had Marsala wine before, in cooking, and... I'm not a fan. I'll admit that right here and now. That being said: I've only ever had one other ex-Marsala whisky, and I may just enjoy this one more than I know. I'll try to keep this out of my head during the review.

Price:No longer available at the LCBO

Abv: 49%

FUCK MARSALA...

Okay, I'll try harder.

Colour: Corn syrup

Nose: Peat, pear, dry, light chocolate, sea air, liquorice gum, little earth

Weaker nose again on this one versus what I'm used to with other Ardbeg releases. However, given some time and letting it open up, it eventually has an almost Laphroaig like profile to it, and the wine shines through to add some nice dryness to it.

Taste: Anise, sea salt, pear, apple, lemon zest, cedar, white chocolate

The flavour, on the other hand, has shown up and apologized into the future for Auriverdes. This is basically what I want from a Canuck whisky, with the cedar and sweet notes, however with some age behind it.

Like the difference between dating a confident older person versus a young, un-confident one. One does what they do well and the other ends up crying after sex.

Oh to be young again.

Finish: Peat, cocoa, BBQ, nutmeg, oatmeal, cinnamon, cashew

And the peat came back.... at the finish, not really the next day.

Spicy too. Somewhat one sided though. Needs something fruity to balance it out away from spicy and earth.

Conclusion: I actually like this. Not love it, but I'm happy I ended up with it in the end. It has a lot of spice and earth to it though, so it could use some more fruit in the finish to balance that out. And in the nose.

Maybe not use Marsala casks and instead a white wine cask? Wait, I'm not in charge of a distillery... I'm going to show myself to the next review now.

82/100

