Hello again boys and girls of Scotchit!  Ardbeg_Head here again with a review of an expression from my favorite distillery Ardbeg.  As the title implies I am reviewing Ardbeg Airigh Nam Beist an expression that has sadly disappeared from the market recently.  I was lucky enough to acquire a bottle from the internet for $100 plus another $20 bucks for shipping.  Without further ado let us dive nose first into this very unique Ardbeg.

Nose:  Upon first nosing a blast of pure peat is present.  What is odd is that this is not the citrus-y peat you find in the 10 year but rather a more pure peat.  What I find odd about the Beist is that the more I nose the less peat I smell.  The smell turns into sweet warming vanilla-oak-grass m?lange with the most obvious and powerful smell being fruit.  Very pleasing.

Palate: Salted pine nuts that envelops the mouth with a velvety soft but oily consistency.  The scotch then turns into a meaty malt then pleases the tongue.  The palate is actually quite sweet for an Ardbeg.  Underneath it all a warm peat is present that does not overpower the flavors like the 10 yr tends to do.

Finish:  Sadly short.  Well balanced oak sticks around along with the warm peat for a while but not long enough.

Overall:  Versus any other expression of Ardbeg the Beist cannot compete however this is not a bad thing.  It is a lovely scotch that gives you a good time.  It is much sweeter than most Ardbegs and because of that I would recommend this for someone looking to get into Islays coming from a pedigree of highlands and speysides.

85/100



I love this scotch and rate it in the low 90's.  

It is sad that it was a limited run.  Like paulrpotts,
I'm hoping for a regular 16yr or 17yr as part of their standard line-up.



Review #35: Ardbeg Airigh Nam Beist Batch no.1

I got a free sample in a local store.

ABV 46%. NCF, Natural Colour.

Colour: Amber.

Nose: Sweet, delicate peat, seaweed and iodine. Peach, red apples, lemon, cattle in a barn, dried flowers.

Wow! What a nose. Why doesn?t Ardbeg produce old whisky anymore?!

Palate: Medium mouthfeel. Creamy coffee with skimmed milk, really earthy peat. Salty seawater, pepper. Malted Barley, liquorice and some BBQ.

Yeah if the Ten was anything like this I?d have a case. 

Finish: Long finish of Liquorice and seawater. Also some smoke lingers. 

Overall: Yeah, what can I say. Looks like old Ardbeg is awesome. Too bad they are so far up their own ass they think producing young NAS flashy label whiskies is sufficient. I would definitely buy a bottle if it were under ?100.- but it?s not so I won?t.

Rating: 92/100. Too bad it?s almost gone and we?re stuck with overpriced NAS bullshit. 







Screw the 12 days of Christmas, Thanksgiving is coming up! What better way to celebrate than with a full thankful serving of mystery reviews, provided by /u/Mentel42. He kindly traded me 13 mystery samples in return for a bottle of Old Forester Birthday Bourbon. I stipulated that the samples should be from Scotland or America. I am unfamiliar with /u/Mentel42's inventory, so these reviews should be as uninformed as possible. I will post one review each day through Thanksgiving. Here we have Sample "E":

For each of the thirteen samples, the first thing I did was nose from the 2oz Boston bottle. My note there: "Savory Peat. Caol Ila?"

On to the official tasting:

Nose: Peaty. Coastal, savory, smoked ham, slight sweetness, brine, band aid

Taste: Ashy peat, smoke, sea salt, camp fire, pepper, bitter herbs

Finish: Smoke, torches all the way down, medicine box, phenolic!, bacon, looong great smoke. Smoldering campfire, great texture. Rubber.

This is an Islay single malt. And it is delicious stuff. Doesn't taste like Laphroaig or Laga, not Bunna, not Caol Ila. Looks like natural color. Dominated by smoke. First thought is that it's a limited/special Ardbeg release. It drinks easy but it could be cask strength. Octomore perhaps? It's a smoke bomb, but definitely not a one trick pony. Fantastic.

My guess is: Octomore x.1
95/100

And, the reveal! Sample "E" is...

Ardbeg Airigh Nam Beist, 2006 46%, 16 years old, Islay. Goodness this is great stuff, and I'm so pleased to have had the opportunity to try something that is now so hard to find. Thanks /u/mentel42!

Previous mysteries:

A

Bee

C

Dee



Hey, 

Sorry I'm new to /r/whisky. I was wondering what these sample bottles are that I keep seeing, and basically who, what, where, why, when you get them. They're a complete mystery to me. 



Review #77: Ardbeg Airigh Nam Beist 1990

I was checking which whiskys I have already reviewed and didn't find my review of this Beist. I thought I already posted it but turns out I haven't. This is a discontinued Ardbeg. If I am right, this was replaced by the Corryvreckan. This whisky was distilled in 1990 then aged in ex-bourbon casks then bottled in 2008. So this whisky should 17 or 18 years old. I got this for $180.

ABV: 46%

Nose: peat, smoke, vinegar, sea air, lemons, bananas, vanilla, spice, dark chocolate, brown sugar, sherry, fruits

Taste: peat, apples, bananas, spice, lemons, pears, vanilla, cream, bacon, brown sugar, chocolate, raisins, berries, salt, hint of bitterness, sherry

Finish: peat, smoke, sweet, fruits, berries

Conclusion: I'm very sad this whisky has been discontinued. It's so good. The best Ardbeg I've had as of yet. It's very complex. The nose wasn't that great but the body is very good. I never expected to get that much complexity from an Islay.

Score: 93



What do Ardbeg & Thelonious Monk have in common? They can both be much more subdued than expected. A special treat for Review #42, which is the ultimate review. Enjoyed neat + 3 drops of water

Nose: This smells fresh & salty, like a sea without fish. The peat has been sanded down, nice mild vanilla and tarragon, creamy kola. After sipping it I do get some smoke. Three cheers for sensory feedback loops B+

Palate: My yes, this really does have a through line with Ardbeg 10, just mellowed out. Slightly tarry, mild vanilla, delicious smoke. There is that oddly sweet Ardbeg quality, only with the beastliness tamed there is more subtlety. Tarragon, cream soda. A-/B+

Finish:  Salt and mild ash, fennel frond. B+

Sum Up: Yep, this is a real winner. I I won?t lie to you, though, I prefer the aggressive combo of peat and youth. SO very high marks though not as high as I would give to its younger, smokier brethren. 88/100



Mostly commenting to give props for your review title ;)

While I have not had this specific one, I do love the Ardbeg 10. In fact, it was one of the first scotches I tried. As such, I'm always interested in trying their other offerings. Nice review!



Uncovering? Don't know about that performance but will now look into it

I just found this entire LP very mellow but still not tame, if that makes sense



First and foremost, this is pronounced "arry nam baysht." I'm sure that helps loads... Myself and many others simply call it the "Nam Beast." Anyway, this was one of the limited release Ardbegs and is comprised of vintage 1990 whisky from a range of casks. 

ARDBEG AIRIGH NAM BEIST

Color: Amber +0

ABV: 46%

Aroma Neat:

Earthy Peat, Chili Lime Cashews, Copper, Raisins, Cinnamon (slightly), Paprika, Smoked Vanilla Pods, Agave/Good Tequila, Pickle Juice, Porcini Mushrooms, Barbecued Pork, Brown Sugar, Ground White Pepper, Cereal Grains, Honey/Smoked Fish.

Comes across as a bit tame and closed-off at first, especially for an Ardbeg. With some time a bizarre menagerie of aromas emerges. It's a little helter skelter, though. I'm at once impressed by the complexity, but I also don't really feel that the smells gel into a cohesive whole.

Aroma Water:

Crystallized Honey, Raisins, Brown Sugar, Cinnamon, Cracked Black Pepper, Cocoa/Chocolate Malt, Barbecued Pork, Cumin, Paprika, Creamy Malt, Gentle Vanilla, Blanco Tequila, Earthy Peat, Unwashed Mushrooms (slightly), Pickle Juice, Dates, Wax.

So weird. That's not a bad thing, but this is no dram to unwind with at the end of the day. Well, maybe it is if wild hallucinations and impossible non sequiturs calm you.

Taste Neat:

Heavy Peat, Musty/Mildewy Oak, Rich Oak/Dark Wood Sugars, Tar, Smoked Kippers, Capers/Olives (slightly), Dirty Honey, Marmite.

Still bizarre, though I appreciate the weirdness more on the palate than on the nose. It's certainly an experience!

Taste Water:

Peat, Bonfire, Ashy Fire Pit, Salty Brine, Flinty Stony Minerality, Burnt Caramel, Smoked Vanilla, Dark Chocolate Shavings, Bitter Malt. 

Less off-the-wall now, but still bursting with character.

Finish:

Mineral Peat, Manure, Copper, Ashy Barrel Char, Sweet Oaky Resin, Pickle Juice/Salty Brine, Scallops, Spent Gunpowder.

Is this the real life? Medium-long duration.

Conclusion:

Impossible to sum up.

Some might call it fiercely independent, but I'll avoid the negative connotation.

Complex, confusing, and enjoyable.

Rating: 86/100

Airigh Nam Beist is a really, really interesting whisky. I appreciate its uniqueness, but I feel like this is a bottle  that I'll have around for a while. When ever I feel like touring bat country, though, I'll reach for this. Something for every mood, I suppose.

Josh

blog



Mmmmm.

It's funny that it sounds so unappetizing to describe, but is so pleasing to experience. 



Ardbeg Airigh Nam Beist (2008) - 46%, $99 

Nose: Ashed peat, iodine, lemon zest, brine, walking through a bog in spring time.

Taste: Smoked sugared lemon, then kippers, and smooth lighter mouthfeel. 

Finish: The smoke stays and swirls, with the lemon holds the longest. Medium length. 

Notes: All of the beastie?s were distilled in 1990 and this is an 18 year expression bottled in 2008. It?s been slightly mellowed by age but the smoke is still dominant. The age also helped to create some more layers of complexity. Pretty wonderful drink.

90/100



Ardbeg Airigh Nam Beist 2006 ? 46%, $99 

Nose: Light earthy peat, strong lemon, creamy malt, light smoke, tangy, brine, iodine, stone fruits, wood polish.  

Taste: Earthy peat, creamy lemon, malt, brine, more stone fruits, light salt, fresh baked bread. Medium mouthfeel.  

Finish: The lemon intensifies and brings the malt with it, the creamy notes hold to the end, there is a very light musty that comes up at the very end.  

Notes: The 2006 was the first year of the Airigh Nam Beist and is said to be 16 years old. This was more earthy and less ashy than the older Beastie. Still a wonderful drink and just an amazing treat to get to taste the Ardbeg of the past.  

87/100



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with review 6 of 6 from my adventures in scotch swapping.  Ardbeg Airigh Nam Beist 1990 release 92proof is the one I saved for last after Glenkinchie, Benromach Peat smoke, Octomore, Balvenie Peated, and Talisker 175.  thanks to Bigpapi.

good but not Ardbeg's best.  kind of Unrefined and immature, not what I'm used to from Ardbeg of now.  still a darn good malt but I was slightly disappointed.  I'm thinking I may re-review Ardbeg Uigeadail because I appreciated it more now and it deserves a better score than when I first tried it a year ago.  the samples I bought from Mastersofmalt will be here tuesday and they include one Ardbeg 18 from Murray Mcdavid and I'm looking forward to that. A brand worthy of a chest tattoo for sure...

88/100

ps: what do you guys think of the shirt I designed around a Laphroaig label with my name in it?:  http://i.imgur.com/BeBkc.jpg



This tastes like a glass of fresh pork?

Not sure if want.



Ardbeg released this in 2006 to replace the 17 Year Old. The Airigh Nam Beist (pronounced ?arry nam baysht) came in 3 versions (the 2007 and 2008 being the others), before eventually being replaced by the NAS Corryvreckan. Unfortunately, all we?re left with now in their standard lineup with a Vintage or Age Statement is the 10 year old, though that is a nice whisky in its own right. 

46% abv. 16 years old.

Nose - Sweet peppery, and smoky. I get a bit of grapiness here that reminds me a bit of the Corryvreckan, which I?ve read was aged at least partially in wine casks. I also get tar, a powerful, ashy smoke note, white pepper, fresh oysters, lemon meringue, brown sugar, maybe some cardamom. Water brings out a drier lemon note and some grassiness. Very nice depth and complexity.

Palate - Smoke, tar, lemon meringue, oysters, white pepper. Quite sweet, but very nicely integrated and balanced, nothing is competing with anything else here. Water makes it drier, as it brings out the smoke, some cardamom, and makes the lemon more like fresh squeezed lemon juice than lemon dessert/candy. Great depth. Medium-plus body, fairly viscous...somehow glides across the palate and sticks to it also.

Finish - Vanilla, lemon drops, smoke, pepper, tar. Lemon note gets fairly strong, and a bit tangy here (not as sweet or tangy with water), being very nicely balanced with the smoky-sweet notes.

I love this. One of the best, if not the best Islay Scotch I?ve had. It?s really a shame LVMH/?Dr.? Bill can?t find the wherewithal to release a nice, older (i.e., in its teens at least), age stated Ardbeg as one of their special release instead of doing something lame like toasting barrel heads or adding gold flakes or something to the whisky.

94/100



That last sentence : you got it all right mate.

Great review !
