What?s up scotchers, Ardbeg_Head here fresh from the Ardbeg Day celebration at the Ritz Carleton in Half Moon Bay, California.  It may have been an hour and a half drive each way and I may have had to limit my drinking a bit so I could drive home but boy I am happy I went.  Ardbeg put on an absolutely spectacular event that I will definitely be attending next year if I can.  The Ardbegness began with complimentary valet which made me feel ridiculous when I pulled up in my ten year old Volvo.  As I alluded to in the photographs, the day?s festivities took place just off of the 18th hole at the ridiculously lavish Ritz Carleton.  There was some very decadent bread pudding and great shephard?s pie as an aperitif as the events kicked off.  There were games, cocktails, free swag and even a 12 foot tall Sotsman.  For the ladies (and I suppose some gentlemen) who are curious what the Scotsman had under his kilt, he was proud to inform one of the female members of my party that it was in fact happiness that he had under his kilt.  At the event the reps were pouring Arrigh Nam Biest, Corryvreckan, Uigeadail and of course the reason for the event the community release of Ardbeg Day.  And without further adieu my review of Ardbeg Day Committee Release: Ardbeg?s Missing Link.

~60% abv

Color:  Green glass shrouds the color but I believe it is gold.

Nose:  Hot sweetness.  A hint of sherry with that usual Ardbeg big bang.  Leather, tobacco and the ocean (although it may be the ocean I am next to).  

Palate:  Sweet, sweet sherry wood smoked barbeque.  This is strong as hell but the smokiness overpowers the sherry rather easily.  The sherry is more of a hint rather than a blast like the Uigeadail.

Finish:  Despite my former smoker?s palate, I cannot quite handle this dram.  It leaves me completely numb at first but soon the smoke slowly rushes back in and envelops the mouth.  There is not much sherry left here but it definitely leads to a sweet tangy barbeque lingering.

Overall:  In a word, awesome Ardbeginess.  According to Mark Harvey, Business Development Director for Glenmorangie and the person running the event, Ardbeg Day Committee release is a mix between 7, 8 and 12 year old Ardbeg that is finished for 6 months in ex-sherry casks.  Because of this limited finish time it resembles to me the middle point between the fiery power of the 10 year old and the sherry sweetness of the Uigeadail.  Ardbeg Day is very enjoyable for those of us who enjoy our smokey Islays young and powerful with some depth and complexity to them.  

95/100

I would rank the event as a 99/100.

Hope you all enjoy the rest of your Ardbeg day ladies and gents!  Slainte!

EDIT:  Sorry imgur duplicated some of the images.



Nice review - my counterpoint to it would be this:

I didn't like it - waaay too much happening at the front of the palate, which doesn't leave any room at all for the finish. it was like a big, smoky punch in the mouth, with very little left to back it up.

I think, perhaps, that the two malts that they've blended it from were both a little underdone... and that they may have erred by trying to mask that, by bottling it at such a high ABV. It had an awkward, medicinal / aniseed beginning that never really let the complexity that I've come to expect from Ardbeg makes its way across my palate - 

Everything seemed to happen right behind my teeth and on the very tip of my tongue. I tried watering it a drop or two at a time, but by the time I got it to rest a little easier on the front palate, it was too far watered to offer much of a finish.

I solved the problem on the day by blending it 2/3 Day, 1/3 10yo - then, like magic, it was a Good Thing.

so if you do manage to find a bottle (they only put 12,000 out to market, worldwide), by all means taste it 'as is' - but in my humble opinion, this is a malt worth keeping on hand to tinker with others when you're feeling adventurous.



Oh man... sorry... 

wasn't aware of the 'no hijacking' rule - my bad, and my sincere apologies.

RP



then... we can be friends?

awesome!

and yeah - totally agree with being swept up in the spirit of the day. I was only at the Sydney event for two hours, but was so swept up in the spirit that I fell asleep on the train ride home. 

awesome time appeared to be had by all. I think I may have been interviewed by a camera crew for something. if the video ever emerges, and it's not completely cringeworthy, I'll share it with the rest of the class.



Just out of curiosity... how would you rank Ardbeg Day against their other offerings?  Going by your 95 above and your previous submissions it looks like...

Uigeadail > Ardbeg Day > Alligator > Airigh Nam Beist 1990

Have you not reviewed Ten or Corryvreckan yet?



This is the problem I have with giving scores because it is all very subjective and the days events made me, in retrospect, rank the Day a few points higher than it should be.  Thinking within relativity I would put it with this order:

Uigeadail>Alligator>Day>Vreckan>Biest>10>>>>>>>Blasda.  

I think every Ardbeg I have tried I would probably place in the 90's with the exception of Blasda.  I don't have any 10 on hand but I will try and get a review of the Vreckan and Blasda sometime soon (I already have 6 reviews in my notebook that I just need to type up).  

The Day was good but I don't think I NEED to go out and buy a bottle.  I think I would probably buy another bottle of the Alligator before I bought a bottle of this.



Looks like a good time... very jealous.

Is Ardbeg Day going to be released at all for purchase outside of the event (if it was even available for sale there)?



Sherry continues to dominate the flavours this year. Benriach, Glendronach, Laphroaig TRE release and now Ardbeg. 

I am just waiting for the next note to take over. 



there certainly have been more "small cask" whiskies popping up lately, Rundlets & Kilderkins, octave, cibidaru...

but IMO a much bigger trend will be premium NAS bottlings to deal with the raising demand which the Quarter Cask also happens to be. when was the last new ardbeg ob that came with an age statement? AnB probably...



60%!

Also, I shouldn't be surprised that you have an Ardbeg tattoo. 

Any word on missing link being available for sale in the states? I missed Alligator, I will not miss this one.



Jealousy level: maximum.

Not only is Ardbeg my overall favorite scotch (at least in the Islay arena, have to give up to the affordability, drinkability of Highland Park sometimes), but man that event looks like fun. 

Do they have more information on such events? 



Dram courtesy of /u/ecb29. I had sen?r google help with the production details. 56.7% ABV, mix of ex-bourbon & ex-Uigedail casks. Yea, according to internet lore they took the ex-sherry casks that had Oogie aged in them & repurposed them. That's how you come strong, my friends! Of course, if you have information to counter or deepen this knowledge please share as I am basing this off of one internet source. Must be true, eh?

Nose: burning leaves. salty, undertone of sour wine. a hint of eucalyptus, grapefruit peel & toasty cocoa

Taste: peppery peat, rich chocolate, smoky sherry. Light citrus overtones. Oh yes, delicious

Finish: smoky, tingly warm tongue, slight sour citrus & peat

Rating: such a wonderful thing to share, thanks again /u/ecb29. Really like this one, right in line quality-wise with recent one-offs Galileo & Ardbog. Has it's own character, a little lighter on the peat but a tad more warmth. 91/100



Hi Folks, last Saturday /u/Ardbeg_Head and I attended the 2013 Ardbog Day event in San Francisco, California. I thought you might like to look through all the terrible pictures we took, just to see what the event was all about. 

Amenities included a free Ardbeg Copita with lid, 2 different styles of shirts, unlimited pours of Ardbeg 10, Corryvreckan and Uigeadail, and eventually the Ardbog 2013. There were 3 different (AWESOME) cocktails that were all you can drink (See photos), live music, and attractive (But cold hearted) Ardbeg girls. Oh and uhh, ?food?.

This year they chartered a party-boat, and we cast off from Pier-40, where we took a leisurely cruise over to Angel Island. On Angel Island there was a beach with hidden treasures to be found such as coins (redeemable for Ardbeg shirts), empty Ardbeg bottles with notes inside and various other Ardbeg merchandise (Peat cones etc).

On the cruise back to pier 40 the distillery manager, Haimish, gave a brief speech and introduction to this year?s special release, and everyone was poured glassfuls to toast with and enjoy
.
It was a great event, despite some of the hurdles they had to overcome at the last minute (Venue change) and I?m certainly looking forward to next year?s event!

Ardbeg_Head and I took some quick tasting notes of this years whisky on the bow of the ship, here are my notes:

Ardbeg Ardbog Day 2013

Nose: Slight smoke, dates and black currant. Brined oven roasted turkey

Palate: That great Ardbeg oiliness, Salty caramel and vanilla. Earthy peat and black tea leaves

Finish: Smoked meats, lingering bitter oak smoke. Lemon zest, tannic and quite dry. 

88/100

Edit: That picture of the big cargo ship? I wasn't lying when I said it rocked our world with its wake!



Hi hi scotchiters!  Is been quite a while since I've posted anything here but allumina had such a good time and i enjoyed the whisky so much i thought id post and see my favorite sub.

Nose:  salt, caramel, dark berries and the intense bog smoke.  Cured meat.

Palate:  oily big with a rising Brando of smoke the takes a minute to hit.  Berries balance with a cured meat feel.  Lots of salt and caramel lead into the finish.  Lots of cherries sugar.  Think sherry bomb

Finish: dry and smokey with bitterness berries that sick prickly to the tongue.

91/100



Ha, I was wondering if you were going to come out of the woodwork and do an Ardbog review.

Look at you. Jacking Allumina's review.



Well, go to Ardbegs website and sign up to be a committee member so that you will get information about next years event. 

Also check out http://www.whiskylivena.com/event/whisky-live-at-the-games-san-francisco-2013/

and

http://www.whiskyfestblog.com/whiskyfest-san-francisco/

Cheers and welcome to the bay area!



Thanks for sharing Allumina, I enjoyed the pictures. The event seems like a lot of fun, I definitely want to try and go next year. I'm about 3 hours south of San Fran. 

Pretty cool that they are so generous with pours and shwag. I want to try those cocktails now, sounds delicious.



Looks like a great event, thanks for the review! I attended the Ardbod day celebration in DC last week and it's almost absurd how different the two events were.

They crammed this one into a tiny room at the back of a neighborhood bar, and the line was out the door since it clearly wasn't equipped to hold more than 20 people. Only the Ardbog was available, and they only brought a few bottles, so supplies ran out in about a half hour. Enjoyed the whisky, but all in all, the event was a bit disappointing. Got some free peat cones, though, which was cool.



I'm tellin' you, the cocktail with the habanero bitters was eye opening. Makes me want to turn into a hipster mixologist and move to Portland... almost. 

I'm not a huge old fashioned fan but the peaty Ardbeg certainly gave it an edge that I find to be otherwise lacking in a traditional old fashioned.



Ardbeg Day - Release the Peat! / 56.7% ABV / $85

tasted neat, w/filtered water

This was released on June 2nd, 2012 to celebrate and promote Ardbeg!  They'll be doing it again next year, and if you don't feel like buying a bottle, you can go like them on Facebook and attend a free Ardbeg party near you:

It was an Olympic effort from all concerned. All over the globe and on Islay, people ran, swam, jumped and drank Ardbeg. Mostly drank Ardbeg. And now we?ve got our breath back, we?d like to thank all those near and far that made the inaugural Ardbeg Day such a monumental event. And don?t forget, we?ll be doing it all again next year so please save the date ? Saturday 1st June 2013

Since they ran 12,000 bottles, you should be able to find it.  It's a vatting of two different styles of Ardbeg thrown together in ex-sherry casks for the final 6 months.

Also, this isn't a stock photo ;)

Rating: 93/100 

29th review

Homepage | Review | Buy @ Wine-Searcher



I've tried this once while smoking a cigar and the nose was divine. I got a lot of citrus and fresh fruit notes.

I'm trying to find a bottle here but it's proving to be very difficult.

Great review and great photo!



I really like this one.

I acquired a bottle after the Ardbeg Day and was at first a wee bit disappointed. I thought it tasted like a 10 year old, only stronger.

But then I tried it with some small droplets of water and the palette just exploded in flavors. I rarely use water as I usually think whisky is better neat but in this particular case I have to promote adding a little! 



I went out dramming for my birthday on Tuesday and decided to start things out with Ardbeg Day, a 2012 cask-strength release for -- what else? -- Ardbeg Day! Matured in refill Uigaedail barrels (or so I was told). I am not sure how much a bottle will set you back, but I reckon it's more than a little by a bunch. 57%  

Color: weak tea.  

Nose: big peat, raw red meat, and a hint of chlorine.  

Taste: tangy-sour peat, grass, black pepper, and honeydew.  

Finish: bitter! clay, blue cheese, charcoal, and burnt rubber.  

Conclusions: Seems like a stronger version of the 10y -- the peaty-earthy flavor profile is bold but a little rough around the edges. However, it is a very smooth and utterly drinkable cask-strength whisky. Something I've come to expect from those crafty Islayers. As it would turn out, my first glass was the best of the night! 87/100  

Personal note:  My buddy was sipping on Talisker at the time I was enjoying this. I offered him some Day and he preferred it, and was shocked when I told him the ABV. To him, Talisker packs a bigger punch and even gave him heartburn -- lending more evidence to my hypothesis that my beloved spicy-smoky Talisker is more challenging than the peat-bog Islays.



Great review. I wish I could find a bottle of this, I've only had this at a pub and I really liked it.

Which Talisker was you friend drinking?



Ardbeg Day ? 56.7%, $100 

Nose: Earthy peat, light smoke, lemon cake, fruity coastal air, light brine, very slight floral note. 

Taste: Spicy, lemon peel, charcoal, smoke, tangy fruit, slightly earthy, fresh green peppers. Medium to full mouthfeel.  

Finish: The coastal air comes in and hold with the lemon, smoke also stays but it a little subdued. The peppers leave but come back with a little spice at the very end. Medium length.  

Notes: This was the 2012 release. It has all the classic Ardbeg notes with many deviations in there as well. The cakey and earthy notes are a great addition to this one. Overall it has strong notes that are all very intense and make this a real treat.  

88/100 



Aged and married in refill sherry casks used for Uigeadail.

Distiller: Ardbeg

Age: NAS

ABV: 56.7%

Price: $400+

Cask Strength

Non-Chill Filtered

Natural Color

Eye: 
Apple juice

Nose:
Thick aroma of peat, fruit, smoked meat, toasted malt, vanilla and brown sugar. A cotton candy and sherry sweet undertow with a light spice. Water almost knocks the spice out completely but opens up some notes of honeysuckle.

Palate:
Warm rich notes of peat, smoked meat, fruit and a complex spice imbued with hints of clove, anise, allspice and cinnamon and a light sherry sweetness. A complex dark sweet undertone (brown sugar, caramel, brittle, toffee, butterscotch) runs throughout. Water doesn?t really change it much except to make the spice a little more crisp.

Finish:
Long peaty and fruity with notes of caramel, wood and a sherry like sweetness.

Balance, Body & Feel:
Perfectly balanced with a rich round body and thick oily texture.

Score:
93/100

Overall:
The Ardbeg Day whisky is just freaking amazing. Thick rich sweet and smoky malty nose, thick rich smoked meat with a brown sugar glaze palate with an overall warm and oily character tying it all together. This is the kind of Ardbeg I want to drink everyday, so I?m glad that Uigeadail exists because from an overall perspective I think Oogie's better, but this is different enough in a way that I would still love to have it as an alternative. C'est la vie.

Post on my site? if you?re curious



Greetings Scotchit! Today is the Finnish independence day, which is not a very big celebration. However, yesterday was the Christmas party for the whisky society I participate in, which was a much bigger celebration! As a result, we were at a pretty well-stocked bar, and I tried a few things I haven't tried before.

I didn't write a review on the Kilchoman Sherry Cask Release I tried first, but here's my analysis: Loch Gorm is better. Among the shelves was also last year's Ardbeg Feis Ile release, Ardbeg Day, which I missed out on and wanted to review. I still need to go back and have the Kilchoman 100% Islay Single Cask, which should just about make me jizz my pants.

Now, bear in mind this was a small pour, but I decided to take notes anyway. One of the other members was shocked at how detailed my notes were - he should have seen my Caperdonich notes. On to the notes!

Ardbeg Day
Islay, 56.7% ABV, NAS, NCF, natural colour, 20ml bar review

Nose: Peat and malt. Brine and pepper. Citrus. Dry smoke. Nutty. Vanilla. 

Pretty standard Ardbeg, but softer and slightly fruitier than the 10 - nowhere near the fruitiness of the Uigeadail, but still more rounded than the 10. Relatively sweet throughout, but otherwise rather non-descript.

Taste: Ethereal mouthfeel. High proof. Vanilla and sweet, toasted oak. Dry smoke. Slight bitterness. Slightly sour malt and apples. Light cinnamon.

Like Ardbeg 10, but bigger and a little more rounded. Nothing special, really. Surprisingly little brine for an Ardbeg.

Finish: Lengthy and drying. Big smoke. Vanilla and toasted oak. Pepper and more brine.

Good, strong finish, but nothing new here either.

Summary: It's a super smooth and strong Ardbeg 10, with a more rounded flavour than the incessantly peaty Ardbeg 10. Not that special, though, not in the way of the weird Ardbegs: Alligator, Supernova, Ardbog, Galileo.

I later found out that this was aged in refill Uigeadail sherry casks, but I really couldn't have guessed - it could just as well have been first fill bourbon Ardbeg 15. I can scratch this off the list of things I need to buy at auction, since I think Uigeadail does this profile better.

Score: 85/100
Uigeadail on sleeping pills.

Previous Ardbeg reviews:



Well, there's 2 major factors: 

a) Cask strength whiskies are undiluted. This means that all the flavour in them is still there. Same principle as diluting anything else - the more water you add, the less taste there is. This, in general, is a good thing.

b) You can water them down to whatever strength you want. With a whisky bottled 40%, you can't make it stronger. But a whisky bottled at 57%, you can easily dilute to 40%. 

New drinkers generally can't handle cask strength whiskies, generally because they take huge gulps rather than small sips. But once you learn to enjoy it, there's no going back.









All whisky comes out of the cask at 50-65% (mostly depending on age).

It's worth pointing out that it's often the case that older whiskies, particularly those that have been aged a very long time, say, 40+ years, can come out of the cask frighteningly close to the 40% ABV minimum as a result of alcohol being lost to the "angel's share." Never the less, they would still be rightly considered to be "cask strength."



Joe Glenlivet thinks that whisky being above 40% is a negative. 

Funny you say that as I was going to say Glenlivet Nadurra would be a good starter cask strength whisky. 



I just had a small pour of this at the new tasting bar at The Party Source. I really enjoyed it, but I didn't get most of the fruit you did. I found it quite savory, in fact. Interesting.

Happy to see a review of this right after I tried it. Thanks for posting!



It is nuts. I went back today. Springbank Port Wood, Craigduff 33 year signatory CS, Glenfarclas 21, Glendronach 15 Revival (to prepare for the 21 Parliament I just cracked open here at the house)... then the bourbons: WT American Spirit, JPS 25yr., Willett Single barrel 21 from last year (a wheater) and Willett Single Barrel 16 year from 2008 bottled at 147 proof. 

It's been a good day.



I had a buddy who was in a fraternity with a guy named Craig Duff.

That was a lie. What are the prices like?



I mean, it's relative. Fruity for an Ardbeg, not for a Glensomething. 

Definitely more salt than sweetness, but compared to other Ardbegs.



Ardbeg Day - 56.7% ABV

Nose: Similar to the Uigeadail.  A little more smoke though.  Some nice saltiness as well.

Palate: Nice body and weight to it.  Lots of smoke and ash with a sherry sweetness as well.  Some dark fruits showing through.  A bit of mushroom.

Finish: Warm and quite long.  The sweetness fades into a dark peat smoke.  Its lovely.

Score: 90/100

I finally made it to Canon with their most epic whisky list.  Decided to try this one, and boy am I glad.  I love the Uigeadail, and this was quite similar but a bit sweeter and peatier somehow.  Wish I could buy a bottle.  But I'll just have to go back to Canon sometime, as a dram of this is cheaper there than most of the other Ardbegs they have on the shelf for some reason.  :)



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another sample review.  I think BigPapi gave me Ardbeg Day 113.4 proof, I forget, I did a bunch of trading and have been a busy dude lately.  This was released for a limited time/ special occasion and I've seen a full bottle at my local store for $80 I believe.  I have passed on picking it up to save some money and because I don't care for "collector" bottles.  Especially after Snow Phoenix.  anyway

somewhere inbetween Ardbeg Rollercoaster and Corryvrekan in flavor and quality.  it's definitely good but nothing special I need to buy a full bottle of.  I'm not trying to rant about collectors editions but I dont like collector editions.  They make a limited run and then jack the price up high.  Now, this one isn't really overpriced compared to the pricing of most Ardbeg's but things like Shackelton's and Snow Phoenix, and a bunch of Bruichladdichs are.  I get why but I also try not to buy into it anymore.  That being said, I'm a sucker for all things Laphroaig and probably will get this year's Cairdeas.  

92/100

as another side note, my pyramid of whisky is getting narrower every day as I draw near to top of only the ones that I love.  I'm a little sad about it.   My bottle diverse collection is slimming down.   I used to go into a store and just stare blankly at the wall of whisky and be overwhelmed and excited.  now I go in and mentally say to myself, no, no, no, psh lame, no, overpriced, no, no, tried it, tried it, tried it. I'm not sure thats a bad thing though.  I've spent way too much on full bottles that I've only thought were ok.  Now I can concentrate on the best for as long as they exist (macallan, you bastards!) and only venture into the new when special things come around.  it's less exciting but more comfortable. does that make sense?

ps - i'm taking a bit off of mod duties for the next week or so, I'll be around but not as much.  I have confidence the place is in good hands now so if you need something, give the other mods a holler.   Scotchit is evolving nicely. 

cheers.  





Just holding the fort...



Its not that I've tried everything, there is just little mystery to most now. I'm just going to do less full bottle gambles. I've tried so many in the last two years.  Wasted too much money.  

Its funny that you're twice my age.  I feel like the old guy. 






I got my hand on the Ardbeg Day bottle and it struck me as very similar to the 10yo Ardbeg only a lot stronger. I didn't find it particularly exciting.

But then I added some drops of water and the whisky turned from 10yo with a punch to something very enjoyable indeed.
