Hello there Scotchit! I wanted to put some whisky in my glass tonight and sit down with some Arran Sauternes finish while I watch my wife play Ni No Kuni on PS3. I enjoyed my first experience with Arran 10 and gave it an 87/100. Let's see how a French Bordeaux wine cask finished Arran malt holds up! Cheers

Arran Sauternes Islands Single Malt - ABV 50%  

Enjoyed Neat

Color: Golden Honey

Nose: Ripe Honeydew Melon, Big sweet banana, very light note of black licorice, sweet floral notes, very little evidence of any woody flavors. After letting this rest in the Copita for around 10-15 minutes while I shot a few photos the floral notes really became very pronounced and delicious. Like walking into an Apricot orchard in bloom with sweet rotting fruit on the orchard floor. A very enjoyable nose here.

Taste: Lush creamy body, honeysuckle nectar,  the malt comes in velvety smooth and thickens up to a sweet honeydew flavor and then into citrus with a bit of spice that warms on the end as it's held on the palate longer, slight salty mineral note but not off-putting in the least. A nice fruity palate on this dram!

Finish: A flash of heat into marzipan then an tangy orange cream finish, a bit of the 50% ABV heat pops it head in to say hello briefly. Big Sauternes flavors coming through here, very clean and crisp finish leaving the mouth semi-dry with a medium long finish. The flavors linger for a few minutes and finishes on roasted cashew and faint minerals.

Summary  I'm going to call this a successful French Wine Cask finished whisky! This is the second Sauternes finish I've tried and it's definitely quite an enjoyable one if you enjoy fruity / floral Island drams. I'm marking this one point higher than I gave Glenmorangie Nectar D'Or (Sauternes Finished); however, in my experience since that review I can say I would much rather have this Arran Sauternes over the Glenmo.

The nose is fruity and floral and I enjoyed my time nosing this. I would compare it to a punchier Glenmo Original with bigger fruit and banana aromas. Imagine Glenmo 10 with the volume turned way up but no cloyingly sweet notes at all like Glenmo10 original hit me with. This is reminiscent of a highland single malt but the Arran spirit is definitely visible with the addition of some very nice wine characteristics of the Sauternes casks. I enjoyed the Nose, Palate and Finish all equally, not a bad part of the dram for me. The 100 proof on this one really brings some great flavors. The Palate is fruity and punch, and the finish really brings out the Sauternes flavors very nicely. Quality stuff here from Arran.

Score  

89/100
Review #63



Ooh I haven't had any Hazelburn yet, will keep that one in the back of my mind if I get a chance to try it. :)

I'm a fan of Springbank so I should enjoy the Hazelburn.



The Arran distillery is a pretty young distillery (around 15 years old?) on the island of Arran.
They released a wine finish NAS range last year (Sauternes, Port, Amarone) which I obtained some samples of :)

They are bottled at 50% vol.

The first one I'll review is the Sauternes Cask finish. Sauternes is a very sweet white wine from france and is one of the more common wine finishes in whisky.
Sauternes wiki

Nose:  dry Riesling wine, Muscat grapes, hints of peat and smoke / nutty, very light, a tad alcoholic, 'young'

Mouth: Apple-Drink, light, light flowers, hints of honey

Finish: Apple-Drink, Honey, grassy, short, a tad dry oak

Comments: Hm, this one is a very light and fresh one, but it just feels a bit too young. Letting it breath in the glass for a bit does good. While Sauternes finishes often enrich whiskys with some thick sweetness, here it feels more white whiney (Riesling) with the accompanying dryness. 
It only works sort-of and I think it would have worked better with a bit more maturing before the finishing.

76 points (price/value/etc) not a factor. Bottles cost around 40?

reviews of the other two finishes to follow soon



Review #141

Another quickie. Shouts out to /r/bottlesplitters for making this one happen.

Arran Malt Sauternes Cask Finish, 50% abv, Island

Nose: Creamy and rich. Earthy? soft and edgy all at the same time. Crisp floral, linen, citrus and apple. Some brown sugar stirred in.

Palate: Ashy heather. Extremely warming. Very light, fresh manicured oak, white wine, touch of sulfur. Graciously oily. 

Finish: Medium in length, warming still. Some soft dusty nonacidic ash, light smoke, crisp green apple skin, salty honey candies

83/100

Tasty stuff. I was really looking forward to this because it was high abv and it had an interesting finish but it didn?t wow me unfortunately. Still tasty. Try before you buy.



I've grown interested in Arran in recent weeks, but I'm not seeing much that recommends the special finish bottles (Sauternes, Port, Amarone, Bourbon).  I've tried this particular whisky recently, and I had a similar reaction to what you found.  Fine, but sort of meh.  Too bad.

Right now I'm happy sticking with the regular 10, and I'm keeping my eye out for the cask strength.  

Nice review!



Great review. Sauternes seems to divide opinion.. From reading/commenting with people on the recent reviews of this and Glenmorangie Nectar D'or, people either love it or hate it. It seems quite an even split.

Not tried this personally, but from what I hear it's THE best Sauternes finish.



Appearance: Amber

Nose: Honey, vanilla, malty, slight note of sulphur (like match sticks), white fruits, light and delicate with some floral notes.

Taste: Nice sweet arrival, rich vanilla, lots of white fruits, grapes, pear, a touch of lime.

Finish: Finishes light, with some subtle sweetness and lingering vanilla. Medium length.

Notes: This one is really nice. There is a lot of subtlety in the nose and taste, with fruits and floral. It's light, but somehow rich at the same time. A very nice expression of Arran.

Score: 87/100

Scores to Date: Min:66.0, Max:98.0, Avg:85.6, SD:5.4



Quite some time ago, a bunch of us at the Toronto Whisky Society got together to informally drink whisky with an N.A.S. or under 10 year age statement.  I thoroughly enjoyed the event and didn?t have it in me to review or even sample everything.  That said, here are the few review notes I did manage to take.

Arran Sauternes Cask Finish

50% abv.

Nose: white wine, grapes, dry sour malt, oak, cocoa.

Palate: white and brown sugar, oak, baked fruit medley, peach.

Finish: malt, apple crisp, brown sugar.

Lots of baked fruit notes along with that interesting Arran sweet and sour contrast.  Somewhat unique, very pleasant, exceeded expectations and one of the better Arran cask finishes for me.

86/100






Arran Sauternes Cask ? 50%, $80 

Nose: Bready, grape must, malt, juicy fruits, apples, grapes, fresh apricots, oak. 

Taste: Oily, oak spice, light honey sweetness, apples, malt, light citrus. Full mouthfeel.  

Finish: The sweetness fades quickly but leaves the fruit, the malt holds strong, a harsh bitter comes in right at the end. Medium length.  

Notes: A lot of Arran here and nice influence from the wine in the form of the loads of fruit. The mouthfeel was wonderful so very oily. That bitter just ruined it all on the finish, everything fell flat after it.  

81/100



Blind sample tasting, courtesy of? /u/normallyimonimgur, double whammy! Per the usual, the sample was tasted blind initially, with notes in italics added during the second (revealed) tasting if I found anything important.

?

The Arran Malt Sauternes Cask Finish 14YO ? 50%

?

Average score to date: 82.5 (updated a couple of other scores)

?

So after trying the port and sauternes casks, I am going to say that Arran does finishes much better than Glenmorangie. The cask influence is much stronger in the two variations I?ve tried, and does a much better job of showcasing the wine influence. I know I said that the finish was the weakest point, but after the second go-round I?d say it?s tied with the nose, and both lag quite a bit behind the palate. The taste of this dram is just extraordinary. It might be that the Glencairn?s ability to focus the nose brought out more of the malt and sweetness, which is NOT what I?ve been looking for lately. My first rating of this pour put it at 91, and I felt bad downgrading it to 88, but it?s been a while since I reviewed this one the first time. Still ? it?s a GREAT dram.



bought this for a buddy as a housewarming gift and he generously shared some with a few of the guys this weekend. I've been a big fan of all the Arran malts I've tasted (see list below) and was excited to try another from their cask finish series. 

Appearance:  quite light, doesn't appear to be coloured. Some legs but hard to see with this glass.

Nose: quite floral and fruity. Some apricots, pears, melon. 

Taste: unfortunately hot for only 50%. This seems to be very young. I added a few drops of water to open it up a bit. Lots of light fruit again: apples, melon, peach. Quite sweet, bit of oakiness to it. Creamy body. 

Finish: relatively short, but quite sweet. 

Rating: 82/100

this bottle is my least favourite of all the Arrans I've tried so far. It was nice but fairly straight forward and tastes a little bit immature. I think it would benefit from a few more years of aging. Tasty dram but I wouldn't buy it for my own collection.





I've found the CS stuff from Arran is pretty phenomenal. too bad this one didn't live up to it. still have mad respect for the distillery and have enjoyed every dram from them i've tasted. the links above for the hardy napoleon cognac and the gonzalez byass cream sherry finishes document the best two i've had. fucking love cask strength. 

also... you went to feathers and i didn't get an invite??!? kidding :P but we should definitely get another meet-up happening with the reddit crowd. I live in TO now so it's a simple TTC ride away for me. 


Arran Sauternes Cask Finish is a funny sample. You see, lasidar was not a fan of this one. So any time we hung out and had "kill bottles", it showed up. The first time, I realized that I should save it for this eventual large review.

And then I skipped reviewing it 3 more times, each time with lasidar offering me more and more.

Also I'm bipolar when it comes to Sauternes casks. Sometimes I like them, sometimes I don't. I personally think this is partially due to my own feelings about them and partially due to the quality of the casks.

So of course, the new "finishes" whisky has one. And it's part of their standard finish line. So let's see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: $93.95 CAD at the LCBO

Region: Island

Cask Finish: Sauternes Casks

Abv: 50%

Colour: 10YR 8/8

Nose: Meyer lemon, orange, custard, wood, butter, pineapple

Sweeter lemon, which is standard for Sauternes casks that I've had. It's sweet, fruit forward, and somewhat creamy.

So far so good. I can't see why I put this off. Really nice nose. In no way am I building this up as a comedic method I've used too many times. Certainly not.

Taste: Lemon pepper, candy, caramel, basil, olive oil

That's an odd flavour. Very hot, lemon flavoured, and some odd earth notes that aren't doing it favours.

Like half the dram wants to be sweet and citrus, half wants to be earthy and pasta rich, and the lemon pepper is sitting in the middle trying to talk it all out.

As a heads up, this doesn't end up happy.

Finish: Almond/marzipan, salt, lemon candy, pear, ginger

I like almond/marzipan flavours, and having this one here is a bonus. 

There's a strong salt flavour, too much lemon, and it turns out that "sweet" won. Sweet and salty should work, and doesn't here.

Conclusion: It's a whole bunch of "this should work" and then the finish and taste goes "no, it doesn't". I liked the nose. It was nice, took the best parts of a Sauternes influenced whisky.

The taste was odd and didn't really work. The finish is nice, but short and overall there's too much lemon candy in it.

Really this is one of those "skip" ones. I think Sauternes needs to be added to either something peated or something old. It can't lead the section, but it's a good second chair.

70/100




wow, impressive start to the series!  love it!  

you get an upvote for UMBRAGE.  what a word.  going to be using it this weekend, my wife and i love using new esoteric words in random situations.  

very interesting on the grand cru, i didn't know any scotch was aged in champagne.  super interesting!!!



My Current Whisky Network Average =     77.31

Standard Deviation =    9.98

Skewness =  -2.66314

Kurtosis =  10.71697

Median =    80

IQR =   9

Max =   92

Min =   10
