REVIEW #55: Isle of Arran 12 year Cask Strength - 53.9% abv 

Nose: Big and buttery.  butter, vegetal, cinnamon, subtle grass, white pepper, biscuit, raisin, roasted cereal

Taste: Powerful.  Salted butter, creamy, sweet, oily mouthfeel, olive oil, peppery, semi-sweet chocolate, fruit cake, lots of spices, cinnamon, clove, nutmeg, candied orange.  I added upwards of 3 teaspoons of water and it was still a potent mix.  Fantastic value for money.

Finish: biscuit, butterscotch, anise, cinnamon, clove, chocolate, very rich, mouth-watering, long-lasting, peppery. Lasts forever and ever. 

Score: 90/100

Buy a full bottle? YES!

Closing Thoughts: Incredibly satisfying and interesting.  Wow.  So much going on and being able to add so much water really gives you a lot of drink for your dollar.  I?ll definitely be grabbing a bottle of this.

Review #65: Arran 12 Cask Strength.  Unsure of Batch #

Colour: Apple Juice

Nose: Sour, white grapes, wine, apples, caramel, peach, pear, grains.

Palate: Leather, sweet fruits, honeydew, red liquorice, mint, cinnamon hearts, Swedish berries.

Finish: White sugar, alcohol heat.

I often associate Arran with a sourness and this cask strength offering is no exception.  Although I can enjoy a higher abv scotch without water, this one really needs it.  When you get past the sour notes, this is ultimately a sweet, fruity, enjoyable scotch that reminds me of candy.  There's a slight leather/smoke quality here which adds some dimension and depth.  You really have to search for it.

abv 53.6%

83/100




Arran is a relatively new distillery, founded in 1994. This one is aged in a combination of first and second fill sherry casks, as well as ex bourbon barrels. 

Distilled/Owned by: Arran / Private Shareholders

Region: Island (Arran)

53.6% ABV

Aged For: 12 Years

Chill Filtered/Color Added? : No to both

Color: Slight gold

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn 

Nose: Rich apple and honeycomb. Gentle fruit, light grain, and what I can describe as the scent of a barnyard.

Taste: Oily and rich, a heavy fruitiness. A touch of oak, with herbal undertones and earthiness. 

Finish: Warm and long with ginger, clove and fruit. 

Thoughts: Good mouth feel and combination of fruits, but the earthiness brings my score down a few points due to my own personal preferences. 

Score: 78/100



Arran 12 Year Cask Strength ? 53.2%, $65

Nose: Very strong malt, fruity green apple and pear, light salt, light honey. 

Taste: Very malty, dried hay, spicy chili, green apple fruit, all coated with honey. Medium to full mouthfeel.

Finish: Beautiful cereal malt and honey lead. Slight salt makes it mouthwatering. Light vegetal almost cilantro at the very end. Medium-long length.

Notes: I?ve had an Arran expression every now and then and have never been disappointed. This is no exception, very well crafted and balanced yet ever so complex. 

87/100



/u/filez41 and I did one of those trades that was less of a swap and more of a mutual "I brought you some awesome whisky to try" kind of thing. He's done a few reviews of samples I gave him and seems to have enjoyed them a lot, so now it's time for me to rave about one of the samples he gave me (I hope). 

But really, how are you going to go wrong with Arran 12 Cask Strength? It's a beautiful evening to enjoy an expression that I haven't tried before from one of my favorite distilleries AND it's at a lovely 53.2% cask strength ABV. Much excite.

Arran 12 Cask Strength

Batch #4

Strength: 53.2%

Color: Gold. 

Nose: Classic ex-bourbon cask profile done right! Turn the malt up to 11, dial in some honey, and let those floral notes captivate the senses. Exactly what I was hoping for. 

Palate: Confectioners sugar and funnel cake come in with a little bite. This guy packs a punch, but it's super flavorful. Chocolate mousse gives the palate some nice decadence. A wave of fruit notes backs up the malt: melon and pineapple. 

Finish: A nice dash of oak in the finish complements a lingering chocolate cigar smoke. 

Summary: Arran is a distillery that's doing things right. Most, if not all, of their products are 46+%, NCF, and natural color. They experiment with interesting finishing casks. Their Private Cask releases are IB-like, offering unique non-standard expressions at a reasonable price. They put out Sherried Single Casks that can stand up to GlenDronach. And finally, they have a fantastic Cask Strength ex-bourbon release that is the exactly the way I like this style of whisky. Bravo. 

Score: 93/100 

Scotch Review #101

Whisky Review #205

@review_bot scotch 'Arran'



And finally, they have a fantastic Cask Strength ex-bourbon release that is the exactly the way I like this style of whisky. Bravo. 

I think this is primarily sherry cask  no? Or at least around 50/50.   I think its first fill sherry, refill sherry and ex bourbon cask.  I had a previous batch 2 and it was damn good stuff.  Easily my favorite by them .



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  On my quest for replacing Macallan's lineup with better but similar drams, I've come across this winner:  Arran 12 year Cask Strength 53.6% ABV

CREAMY.  a good replacement for any of the Macallan Fine Oak series and a better abv with NCF and natural color.  winner winner whisky dinner. mine is the 2nd bottling I guess, which is the same one pictured and quite enjoyable.  found at a little whisky shop in Milwaukee, I couldn't resist.  iirc it was around $65. 

93/100

Arran 14 year old - 86/100

Arran 12 year old Carn Mor Cask - 77/100

Arran Madeira Cask - 91/100

Arran Nonchillfiltered - 86/100



Round 2 in the Isle of Arran malt reviews:

Arran 12 Cask Strength

Batch 1

Islands, 54.1%

Bottled: 09.11

color: alloy orange

nose: honey, aniseed, cough mixture, concrete, white chocolate, baked apple

taste: artificial sweetener, carbonic acid, rapeseed, vanilla, citrus, tangerine, oak, green bananas

finish: long

Pretty complex nose and powerful arrival. Slightly burning on the lips and tongue. Nothing special though, the 10 yo is better imo.

83/100



got this sample in a swap with /u/Boyd86. big thanks to him for hooking me up! I'm a big Arran malt fan, having loved all 3 expressions I've tried so far, so I jumped at the opportunity to try another one at cask strength. The other two CS Arrans I tried had fancy finishes, so i'm curious to taste the pure malt in all its glory.

Appearance:  yellow-gold. Thick legs. 

Nose: it's got some kick! Smells very hot. Once that subsides, I get a lot of oak, some brininess, lots of honey, almonds, some fruit that I can't place. 

Taste: you taste every bit of that 54.1% in this. It's hot. But it's also got a ton of flavour. Lots of honey, the fruit is a bit stronger and I finally detect the sherry. It wasn't really apparent on the nose to me. Apples, some saltiness. Added a drop of water which opened up that fruitiness a lot more, and gives a nice peppery spice note. really thick and creamy mouthfeel

Finish: the spiciness lingers on the palate and when it subsides I'm left with sweet honey again. Moderately long and rather warm. 

Rating: 86/100

this one is good, but didn't quite live up to my expectations, when compared to the other cask strength offerings from Arran I've had. I definitely enjoyed it though and it has confirmed my view that Arran makes a fantastic Island malt. 

Previous Arran Reviews

Arran Hardy Napoleon Cognac CS

Arran Gonzalez Byass Cream Sherry CS:

Arran Pomerol Bordeaux Cask Finish

Arran Amarone Cask Finish



Hello everyone,

Just a few Arran?s today for your enjoyment: 12 cask strength, the Portwood finish and an IB from a Marsala cask.

?

Arran 12 Cask Strength 4th Ed. 53.2%

Colour: Gold

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Big, sweet and quite old school. Sweet green apple, lots of pear, cherry, fresh esters, toffee, the oak is definitely there- Dry oak, tannins. Some sherry in the background. Coffee and a little chocolate developing.

Water: More sherry, more coffee, more chocolate, a LOT more cherry, more oak, more tannins. Cherry sweets. Pepper and ginger after a bit.

Taste: Creamy arrival, building intense sweetness with huge apple and pear sweetness, vanilla, honey, dry oak, cherry, tannins into the finish.

Water: More sweetness, cherry, fizzy cherry sweets, oak coming through strong with tannins and drying with chocolate and splintered wood. After a bit the spice really develops with pepper and hot ginger (a bit of heat).

Finish: Medium length. Toffee and then dark chocolate hit.

Water: Longer finish with more oak.

74/100

?

