Arran Amarone Cask Finish, 50% ABV

Nose: Quite spirity on the nose at first (shows youth). A bit salty again, with a flinty & minerally dryness. After a while, more vanilla and a slight fruit-vinegar (with sugar) note. Some fresh woodiness, sawdust. Needs water to open up - peppery spice, cherry, strawberry and pepper. Wood shavings. Also a musty wine oak note. 

Palate: A bit of everything here - some wood, some salt, some fruit (red fruits), some barley sweetness. The problem is nothing really takes the fore so it's all a bit muddled. 
After water: becomes more lucid, the sweetness moving back while flinty/minerally/salty notes come forward and the woody oak provides backbone. In the middle some pepper, more jammy sweetness coming out with strawberry and raspberry. Finally a tannic dryness at the end. 

Finish: Some nutty chocolate, toasted virgin oak (vanilla and nutty).

Overall: Definitely needs some water to open up. I wouldn't call it balanced in any way, but it's not bad and certainly is interesting in its own way. 

Score: B, an unusual dram that takes time to get used to. Some may prefer it more than others - I personally could have done without a full bottle ;) 

Amarone Cask Finish



Today, the Arran Amarone Cask Finish NAS, bottled at 50% vol. Another wine finish from Arran, this time with red italian Amarone wine.

Amarone wiki

Nose:  Fruit tea, rose hip tea, slight sour, a tad oak

Mouth: fruit tea, tiny bit oak, rubharb juice

Finish: tad oak, drying, fruit tea

Comments: very peculiar, the amarone finish is a bit overpowering letting you only notice hints of the underlying whisky. Also very fruit tea'ish. There isn't a lot of depth to it either, but it
isn't bad. I wouldn't buy a whole bottle but I enjoyed my glass.
Noteworthy is also the color, which is pink'ish :D 

78 points (price/value/etc) not a factor. Bottles cost around 40?



Thanks for the sample /u/toadpooh.

Appearance: Burnished, with a rose tint.

Nose: Quite winey, tart red fruits, raspberry, cherries, there is almost a note of briney fish (as odd as that sounds).

Taste: Sour cherries, turns sweeter with some plumb and peach, rich malty notes, golden sugar, rose water, muscovado.

Finish: Finishes very dry with lingering red fruits. Medium length.

Note: Ok so this is a re-review. The last time I had a bottle of this was back in 2011, and I gave it the lowest mark I have ever given a whisky; 66. At the time, I found it extremely unbalanced, way too winey, to the point that it almost tasted like 50/50 whisky/wine. It was a very early batch, so I was curious if they had tweaked things since then. Apparently, they have. This is much more in balance. I think the Amarone finish is really nice, but I'm just not sold on Arran as a whole. I think their whisky is decent, but it's never blown me away. That being said, I give this whisky...

Score: 85/100

Scores to Date: Min:66.0, Max:98.0, Avg:85.8, SD:5.2 - (Total Reviews: 116)



Arran Amarone Cask Finish

50% abv, non-chill filtered, and natural colour.

Colour: Reddish gold.

Nose:  Sour notes, malt, cinnamon, honey, raspberry, strawberry, herbs.

Palate:  Cinnamon, berry jam, red wine, malt, mint.

Finish:  Honey, hot peppers, cinnamon, black pepper, wood, brown sugar.

Hot alcohol, winey, strong cinnamon.  Challenging, but I tend to like this more and more as I approach the end of the bottle.

86/100

Other Arran reviews:

Arran 12 Cask Strength - 83/100

Arran 14 -81/100

Arran Port Cask Finish - 79/100

Arran Robert Burns Single Malt - 89/100

Arran Single Bourbon Cask - 81/100




Arran The Amarone Cask Finish ? 50%, $80 

Nose: Very sweet berries, blueberry, blackberry, sugared apricots, malt, floral rose, light violet, salt, fruit cake.  

Taste: Sweet berries, malt, fruit cake, light maraschino cherry, oak, black pepper spice, salt, floral honey. Medium to full mouthfeel.  

Finish: The malt grows and holds with the berries, the salt gets a little stronger as well. Black pepper spice lingers in the back to the end. Medium to long length.  

Notes: This is desert in a glass. I can see having one dram of this and being done for the night. It verges on cloying but the salt and malt hold it back just enough.  

85/100 



Arran Amarone Cask Finish

(NAS, 50%, amarone cask finish)

?

Thanks to u/Throzen for this sample!

?

Nose: Cranberry juice, grapes, lemon slices, raspberry jam, paint thinner, floral hints

Taste: Sour cherries, grapes, oak, clove, cinnamon, chocolate, rose water

Finish: Cinnamon, grapes, oak

?

A light sweet and sour interplay throughout the nose. Very fruity up front, with a prominent ?wine grape? note. A touch of citrus and floral hints on the back end, with some mild paint thinner in the background. The taste amps up the sourness of the fruit, offset by dark chocolate though and leading into a strong (but really bland) wood and later some earthy spices. Still some mild florals in the background. The finish holds a spicy heat with a return of the prominent wine grape note, fading on a bit of bitter, drying oak.

Here we have a novel profile that ends up being a pretty fun experience. A touch too hot by the finish (I find that to be the case for most young Arran), I wouldn?t have minded seeing this finish applied to an older malt instead. The mid-palate seemingly held an oddly strong woodiness to it that was a bit distracting for me as well, but otherwise not a bad attempt. I do appreciate the experiment. 

?

83/100



Blind sample tasting, courtesy of /u/WhiskeyMasterRace , thank you! Per the usual, the sample was tasted blind initially, with notes in italics added during the second (revealed) tasting if I found anything important.

The Arran Malt ? Amarone Cask Finish ? 50%

Solid pour, but doesn?t hit any particular spots for me. It makes me think of a very softly-sherried whisky, but I kind of like some sulfur in my sherries and this has none of that. So far I prefer the Port finished Arran out of the bunch, as it seems to have the best balance of flavors.



Looking at your scoring you have

55=wft

wft=? what fucking trash?



I received this in a swap with /u/kinohead, my Canadian compatriot. We met up for a pint at a pub in toronto and exchanged samples after. I've become a fan of Arran malts, particularly some of their unique finishes. I love the experimentation and the ones i've had have been great. i like Amarone wines, so i've been excited for this one for a while. 

Appearance:  peachy-yellow. Viscous and coats the glass.

Nose: quite sweet, light fruit, wine-influence is fairly evident. 

Taste: that's interesting?. It's got some typical wine-finish notes: dark fruit, dried fruit. Kind of sour. A little spicy. 

Finish: fairly long and sweet. I get a chocolate note near the end that's quite nice and lingers a long time. 

Rating: 87/100

I enjoyed this one quite a bit, but it wasn't as good as the cask strength finished ones I had at Christmas. I did enjoy it slightly more than the 12 year cask strength batch 1 though. 

Previous Arran Reviews

Arran Hardy Napoleon Cognac CS

Arran Gonzalez Byass Cream Sherry CS:

Arran Pomerol Bordeaux Cask Finish

Arran 12 Cask Strength Batch 1



Hi everyone,

Another one today from an open bottle tasting in Belgium. This time an Arran finished in Italian red wine barrels.

I'll mention quickly that the colour on this whisky is awesome, like ros? wine pink.

?

Arran Amerone Finish 50%

Colour: Pink

Body: Medium

Nose: Light, floral and fruity. Some spicy notes. Gummy bears. Quite closed actually and none of the sweetness or big fruitiness I was expecting.

Taste: Soft, red berries then those fruity sour sweets, lots of them, cherry sours, orange, a little spicy into the finish.

Finish: Long length. Unbalanced with spicy and some small berries.

It's nice, but I don't feel like the red wine comes through a lot, especially seeing as Amerone is quite intense. The unbalanced spiciness on the finish is also a shame. I would pick the 12yo cask strength over this.

70/100

?

Thanks for reading!

Scotch Review #416

Whisky Network Review #461



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.com/arranamerone

Network Average: 74.8

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent

?

Full Disclosure Disclaimer: I currently work as a Brand Ambassador for Penderyn Distillery. The views expressed here are purely my own and do not reflect the views of Penderyn Distillery or The Welsh Whisky Company. I try to maintain as much objectivity as I can but feel free to take my reviews with as big a pinch of salt as you like. Furthermore, my rating scale is NOT based on a Parker type wine scoring scale or a school/college/university % or A-F grade score. You can find more on my scoring here. I apologise for any seemly low or 'bad' scores given with my system and am sorry I can't say only nice things. Please keep in mind that I am ethically compromised and am unable to produce 100% unbiased reviews.

Why is this here?



Thanks for the review. I admit to being disappointed with this one when I had it. Hoped that the relatively gentle base malt of Arran would work well with the wine finish (a la green spot chateaux leoville barton). But it doesn't - it remains unbalanced, with a little too sour a note coming through.

The 12 cask strength remains the best Arran I've tried so far.



Thanks for sharing your review. I actually picked up a bottle of this when I was at the distillery last month. I really enjoyed the subtle raisin notes but didn't find it to be extraordinary. I thought it would be an interesting addition to our whiskey collection, and it was pretty inexpensive with the voucher and VAT refund.  My wife and I opend our bottle last night when we had some friends over.  It went over fairly well.  The Kilkerran 12 was the group favorite out of the 5 we tasted last night.  

Now I'm just waiting for an occasion to open our  smugglers series vol 1 and 2 and give those a taste. I have high hopes. :)



After a (small) hiatus to let my liver start running again, I've been able to sit down to the start of the samples I have to drink, as I worry if I don't drink them that they will rise up, gain sentience, and then drink themselves as I sleep, as they are filled with wonderful happy juice.

While in the U.K. I put in an order from Master's of Malt. One of the bottle sets that caught my eye was the Unusual Cask Whisky Tasting Set. I'm a fan of odd finishes, so I thought it would be fun.

I'd already reviewed the Balvenie 14 year Caribbean Cask here, so let's see what else this tasting set has to offer.

Up first, chosen randomly by my wife, was The Arran Malt: The Amarone Cask Finish. Ignoring The Title for a second and The Potential overuse of capitals and The Naming Conventions, I've always been interested to try Arran. It's low priced, it doesn't have poor reviews, and they really like to finish off their whisky in interesting ways (including port, sherry, and in this case, Amarone).

However you're probably wondering what the heck The Amarone (geez, once you start, it's hard to stop with The "The" stuff) actually is. I certainly did, so after drinking this, I looked it up. Turns out it's The Typically Rich Italian dry red wine made from partially dried grapes of The Corvina, Rondinella, and Molinara varieties.

Well that's certainly interesting by itself. Let's see how The Arran Malt: The Amaraon Cask Finish turned out.

Region: Island

Abv: 50%

Price: N/A in Ontario

Colour: Ros?

Nose: Roses, sour strawberries, nail polish remover, lemon, raspberry jam, pot pourri, dry sherry

Very strong floral notes mixed with tart, very alcoholic jam. Smells like The Greatest Bar/Flower shop ever, actually, if it existed and wasn't just a fever dream I had. I should note that after awhile the floral notes subside, yet the alcohol never really does, even after nosing for 25 minutes.

Taste: Dry raspberry, burn, fennel, lemon rind, pear/apple, cloves, dirt

The whole mixture of flavours is quite nice. I've had a wine made from dried grapes before (not technically an Amarone as it was made in Canada) and this has some of The Characteristics of that wine, given the dry fruit. However it reminds you it's a whisky with some spices and dirt. Not a big fan of The Dirt, to tell the truth, and unfortunately it dominates The Tongue as time goes on.

Finish: Plums, strawberry, grape, grit, lemon pepper, nutmeg

The Dirt is now The Grit, though it's mixed with a lot of fruit. Almost too much fruit, the acidity and juiciness completely takes over the finish.

Conclusion: There are a lot of great aspects to this dram. First off it's different and it develops unique flavours, which is what I was promised. It has a great Abv, nothing is lost, and it was generally a great dram. The Dirty Elements (great band name) were off putting, and thus it gets docked points for that. I'd probably pick up a bottle if I could, for no other reason than they do something different than normal. I look forward to trying other The Arran Malts in The Future, if for no other reason to capitalize "The" too much.

81/100

Scotch review #118, Island review #9



Thank you for the information, I was getting a tad verbose so I left out some of the description. 

Hope that you end up trying this. I can tell you that master of malt has it, so that may help.



SAQ just got s new shipment. I was on the fence about picking up a bottle, but your review convinced me.

Really sounds unique!
