The Balvenie 17 Madeira Cask bottled at 43%.  

Color - ambery orange 

Nose - vanilla, milk chocolate and caramel, hardwood sawdust and a whiff of strawberry

Taste - vanilla, almond, oak, mild black tea, touch of pepper and a light taste of the madeira, giving it that fortified wine quality with a velvetty mouth feel with malty overtones

Finish - silky smooth with no throat burn but a little tingle on the tongue, a hint of leather and earthy wood that fades to a sweet sherry fruit

Overall, this has a creamy dessert feeling without the sweetness getting out of control.  It's just wonderfully smooth and warm.  I got it on sale for $93, marked down from $125.  Since this was a one off by Balvenie, I am considering buying a couple to keep in storage.  To date, this is the best expression I have had so far by The Balvenie and should appeal to most fans of Speyside whisky.
92/100



Since I rarely add water unless its a cask strength, I think 86 proof for the Madeira is fantastic.  It is possible that it might have been better at 92 or higher but I guess we'll never know.   I know the Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban at 92 proof is great.  Regardless, I drank 1/3 the bottle tonight over about 4 hours while reviewing it.  It definitely gave me confidence to get a bottle of the 21 Portwood.

I'm interested in trying the Laddie 10 as it is labeled unpeated but I have quite a few ahead of it on my list.



Greetings, malt mates! Thatguy here with a Balvenie review because it's been a while since I've done a Balvenie review. The Balvenie 17 Year Madeira Cask was coming on the scene right around the time I started paying attention to single malts. This ended up being the last of what I call the "David Stewart Experimental Collection" of annual 17 year old limited releases. This release started its journey around the time Terminator 2 was released in theaters and spent 17 years in American oak before being finished for a few months in Madeira casks. How did the experiment go?

The Balvenie 17 Year Madeira Cask - 43% ABV - $99.99 for 750 ml

As usual, there?s absolutely no mistaking this as anything but Balvenie. The balance between the honey, vanilla, and oak is incredibly well-crafted. Somehow, David Stewart also managed to add a sweet wine finish without jeopardizing the core flavor profile. As such, this doesn?t scream Madeira. In fact, it doesn?t even exclaim it. It?s ok though. It?s well done and I?m glad I?ve still got some kicking around for a rainy day.

SCORE: 93/100

Other Balvenie Reviews:



First off a huge thank you to Cleric04 and BigPapiC-Dog for the opportunity to try these samples! Once again if you haven't yet, go to /r/scotchswap. Now. Seriously. Go there and thank me later.

Now, for the reviews...

Balvenie 17 Madeira Cask 43% ABV

Color: Chestnut

Nose: That quintessential Balvenie sweet cream and orange rind jumps out at first. Very fresh fruit, vanilla, oak, and honey. Apples, pears, and more sweet citrus. Buttercream. A touch of chocolate. Baking apple pie.

Taste: Medium body. Warm apple pie. Cinnamon. More orange rind. Very creamy, yet light feel. More vanilla and honey. Light white pepper. The balance between whisky and sweet wine seems to be swayed much more in the favor of the Balvenie flavor profile. 

Finish: This is where you get a much more acidic, tart wine quality. Dry, sweet with more citrus and vanilla. New oak with earthy tones mixed in. More delicate than the flavor.

Overall: I really enjoyed this sample. This has a great balance between the core Balvenie flavor profile and a nice touch of Madeira wine. The flavors coalesce into a great drinking experience that has nice qualities from each. I?m glad I finally got to give this a try. 

Total: 93/100




Balvenie 17 Madeira Cask, 43% ABV, Speyside

Nose -  characteristic balvenie honey, red wine bitterness, dehydrated strawberries, tart cranberries, lavender, orange peel, angastora bitters, salty

Taste - big oak, green apples, vanilla tannins, dry red wine

Finish - very dry, honey cough syrup

Overall:  

A nice balvenie, the honey and alcohol was kind of reminiscent of drambuie or some of granddad?s cough syrup.

87/100



Hey schotchit. Been a while. I've been busy. HDD crashed. Got a promotion. Fell in lovThe Balvenie 17 Madeira, 43%, $100
Nose: caramel, cinnamon, jammy fruits
Taste:  brown sugar, fruits, oak, salted caramels
Finish: salty and spicy, bitter/tart fruit
Rating: 88/100
Final Thoughts: This really needs some time to open up. First sip out of the bottle was unimpressive, but after about 15 minutes, the nose and palate really open up. The Balvenie remains one of my favorite, over-priced distilleries. I feel like I need to be eating dark chocolate with this one. In my family, we have  newish tradition of drinking port at christmas, and frankly, this reminds me a lot of that.  



The Balvenie 17 Madeira Cask

Strength: 43%

Color: No need to reiterate.

Nose: Very fragrant, with a lovely floral sweet nose. Honey suckles and fruit candies. Ginger ale. 

A little more time brings out the fruit chew smells. Fruit roll-ups!

Palate: Flavors come in waves across the palate, first sweetness, and then a blast of tobacco like a rich cigar. I'm kind of blown away by how strong of a tobacco note there is, I've never encountered one that was this bold in a scotch, particularly since it's not smokey and there isn't the slightest hint of peat of course. It's not in the nose at all, but it's front and center for me on the palate. Let's give it a little more time and see if it changes. 

...more time to air out delays the tobacco onset. Coffee grounds and an earthiness is in there. The tobacco is almost like a super concentrated oakiness, but I'm not used to that flavor without any smokiness if that makes any sense. 

Finish: The tobacco notes fade to oaky ones that I'm more accustomed to, particularly in the finish of a scotch. The tannic woody notes always seem to hang around the longest. 

Summary: Wow, this is excellently crafted and very unique. It's the kind of whisky that fills a particular niche and does it very well, but it's not something I'd be in the mood for all that often. I'd be curious to see if it complemented a cigar well considering the strong tobacco note that I mentioned again and again. This is one of those whiskies that is executed wonderfully, but just can't quite break into the top tier due to my personal preferences. Very good stuff that I would enjoy on occasion. 

Score: 89/100 

Scotch Reviews #32 & 33

Whisky Review #45 & 46

Related Reviews:

The Balvenie 12 Doublewood: 85/100

The Balvenie 15 Single Barrel: 88/100



I think /u/dustlesswalnut gave it a 94. 

Edit: whoops, he gave it a 95.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  Though its been 4 months since my last Balvenie review, I feel like a broken record.  So for quickness: ME LIKE BALVENIE, ME RESPECT MOST BALVENIE BOTTLINGS, THOUGH ME NEVER REALLY BUY ANY BOTTLES.  I dont know why either, maybe the price... here's: Balvenie 17 year old Madeira Cask 43%abv

great stuff. so complex for low abv. great balance.  nose is a little light but the palate makes up for it big time. I should really buy some Balvenie...  I'm just too picky of a buyer right now; I hemmed and hawed over buying Glendronach Cask Strength b2 last and I think thats pretty delicious, good price too.  But Balvenie needs like a serious cask strength version at a decent price and I would buy that one.  the 15 single barrel is the closest they have for me as a serious buy. 

93/100

Balvenie 12 Doublewood - 70/100

Balvenie 14 Carribean Cask - 88/100

Balvenie 14 Golden Cask - 91/100

Balvenie 15 Single Cask - 94/100

Balvenie 17 Peated Cask - 90/100

Balvenie 17 New Wood - 90/100

Balvenie 17 Doublewood - 90/100

Balvenie 21 Portwood - 94/100

Balvenie 30 year old - 90/100



it happens. I'm not gonna keep crying over discontinued things anymore, theres plenty of whisky in the world to enjoy.

-Texacer



Yeah, I don't care too much once I know it's gone forever, but I'll still be a little sad when I'm reminded of things that I'll never get to try again. 

I just know that there are probably tens of thousands of mind-blowing whiskies that came and went before I was even of legal drinking age. No real reason to cry, especially when you've got a baller collection as it is. I don't know how long you could drink from your collection without buying a new bottle, but I'd be set for the better part of a decade with mine. 

Can't cry too much with that much good whisky sitting in front of me haha.



I didn't realize this was now such a rare bottle, I picked one up last year on a whim at a Twin Liquors here in Austin. Albeit it was quite pricey for a whim purchase but I was celebrating Bitcoin hitting $1200 and felt like splurging on myself a bit. 

Now I'm regretting having finished half the bottle already :-/ 



Hi Scotchit! So, the Balvenie distillery was founded in 1892, but the first official bottling was released not until 1973. The following was released in 2009:

The Balvenie 17 Madeira Cask

Speyside, 43%

Thank you Balvenie Fan Boy for the sample.

color: amber with an orange tint

nose: orange zest, butter biscuits, spicy ginger, cinnamon, oak, vanilla, Amaretto, pear, grapes, honey

taste: oak, dried apricots, hazelnuts, black grapes, raisins, spices, rose hip, hints of redcurrants and grass, Amaretto

finish: medium long, rather dry than sweet

Complex, spicy and fruity nose. Strong oak and very spicy on the palate, almost smoky. Definitely good casks though. A bit of a watery mouthfeel. Should have been bottled at a higher strength. The finish is not very distinctive.

83/100



Several reviews from a recent sampleswap with /u/mapolo29:

Balvenie 17 Madeira

43% abv.

Nose - Honey, apricots, tangy berries, some kind of cured pork (prosciutto?), brown sugar, ginger. Nice and sweet, but with a bit of a sweet, earthy depth I?m picking up as the prosciutto note. Maybe some light smoke after it sits a bit.

Taste - Honey, berries, brown sugar, and apricots, developing in to that prosciutto-y earthy note with a bit of ginger and black pepper. Largely echoes the nose. Has a nice silky texture I?ve found with other Balvenies. Nicely full flavored.

Finish - Honey, prosciutto, fruit, and mild spice. Pleasant, but not big.

This one is probably my favorite Balvenie I?ve had (no Tun 1401 yet here). Has the typical sweet, silky fruitiness I?ve come to expect from them, but with an extra dimension there I pick up as that cured pork/prosciutto note.

88/100

It's Balvenie time.

As I've said before, I am a little bit of a Balvenie fanboy. Not a huge "Gotta get all of the TUNs" type fan. But I do enjoy them. They taste like honey. I like honey.

That said, I don't like Madeira wine. Mostly because I had a roommate who would add it to cream pasta sauces. And about a liter of it each time. And it wasn't that great of wine, so it tasted bad.

That said Balvenie Madeira Cask 17 year old is a treat. It's part of the limited edition 17 year old whiskies that Balvenie finished in different barrels. They are initially aged in American Oak.

Madeira wine is a fortified wine made on the island of New Jersey... wait, no, the island of Madeira. And contrary to what I thought before reviewing this one, it comes in different types, from dry wines that are consumed as an apertif to sweet versions that are had with dessert. And the cheaper ones are loaded up with salt and pepper to be used in cooking.

Holy damn, this all makes sense why my sauces were off now. Mind Blown.

Alright, let's see if I enjoy this, even with my bias.

Price: N/A at the LCBO. I'm as shocked as you are

Region: Speyside

Abv: 43%

Colour: Light Brown

Nose: Brown sugar, green apple, orange rind, straw, honey, lime

Odd... this doesn't smell like annoyance of having to eat a shite pasta cream sauce for a week because that's all my budget lunch for the week.

Seriously though, it smells close to Balvenie, yet with more brown sugar than I remember. 

Taste: Cereal, brown sugar, lemon, seaweed, pear, nougat (less sweet)

Drier than other Balvenie's I've had. Actually one of the times where I picked out cereal and didn't hate it.

Makes me hungry. This Balvenie is making me hungry! Not too sweet either. Reminds me of Honey Crisp cereal, nice.

Finish: Grapefruit, bubblegum, mint, dry, mineral, honey heather, peanut brittle

Big, dry finish on this one. Like a really good white wine actually. Big notes, some a little off putting (looking at you bubblegum), yet good way to finish this one.

Conclusion: I rescind my bias against Madeira wines. This is a good dram, really good. Glad I didn't ignore it because of the finish, because it's tasty. Does all the right things, at the right time. Nothing setting off memories, but close.

There's an odd flavour of sweetness throughout that lowers it a little, as it's out of place, however overall I think it's good, so I'd recommend buying a bottle, if you can.

Editor's Note: After writing all of this, I realized that it was Marsala wine that I didn't like. I'll be trying other Madeira wine finished whiskies in the future

83/100

Scotch review #249, Speyside review #77, Whisky Network review #381

Other Balvenie reviews:

Balvenie DoubleWood 12 year

Balvenie Carribean Cask 14 year

Balvenie Carribean Cask 14 year Re-Review

Balvenie 15 Single Barrel

Balvenie 15 Single Barrel Sherry Cask

Balvenie 17 DoubleWood

Balvenie 17 Peated Cask

Balvenie 21 year Portwood

Balvenie 30 year old

Balvenie Tun 1401, Batch 6



My Current Whisky Network Average = 78.45

Standard Deviation = 10.18

Skewness = -2.93957

Kurtosis = 12.53893

Median = 81

IQR = 8
