After a relatively recent bank-breaking trip to the Balvenie Distillery, I'm down to just the last bottle, the Signature, Batch 3. My first attempt at a review, so here goes...

Colour : Rich Gold.

Nose : Huge, very interesting. Treacle, dates and fruitcake. Moves through toffee notes into banana. Adding water seemed to emphasise the fruit notes, while adding a little spiciness.

Body : Medium-Heavy

Palate : Follows up on the nose, but not as strongly. Toffee features strongly. The Oloroso sherry makes an appearance. Fruit notes, with the banana reappearing.

Finish : Like most Balvenies, a gentle, rich finish. Sherry notes continue, as well as the ever present banana. 

Overall : A lovely malt. The Balvenie has always been a favourite, but this is very pleasant. A richer experience than the now discontinued 10 year old. Palate is not as strong as the Doublewood, and the toffee notes are much less pronounced. Probably not going to replace the Doublewood or Portwood in my heart, but very drinkable nonetheless.  



"Freedom and Whisky Gang Thegither" Thanks!

Edit: If that's not too long :) 



I went to a Balvenie tasting on Thursday and completely agree with your review. I found the finish quite bitter though, which was a shame. Also couldn't taste the banana. 

Overall the Doublewood and Portwood are better; ?85 for the Portwood though, gee it's really not worth it... Bang for the buck, Doublewood is Balvenie's best.



Hello, Scotchit! For my first review I chose The Balvenie Signature. I'm a regular Macallan 12 drinker, but have wanted to branch out for sometime. I'll review Mac another time, as I consider it the baseline that I measure other tastes/quality against and I want some reviewing experience before visiting it again.

Paid $48 +tax

Nose
1st sniff: whoa! Helloooo, snifter! Very strong fumes. Note to self Slow your roll, Ron! Wait a couple of minutes next time.

2nd: Wood. Lots of wood. Is that apple? I think I got some apple behind the wood. Straw or grass.

3rd: Sweetness - caramel, creme brulee. Maple.

Taste
1st taste: all warmth and glands clenching. Taste buds overwhelmed (this is common for me).

2nd taste: Grain - oats, maybe. Cake? No - cajeta.

Finish: cobbler crust (that slightly burnt crust flavor mixed with berry).

It's a nice drink, a bit lighter than my baseline Mac 12, but heavier than some others I've had (Glengoyne 10, Glen Moray, Glenmorangie). If it weren't discontinued I'd buy it again, but not before I have tried others from The Balvenie.

82/100





Also, don't forget to Archive your review!



Thanks, Archive sent! As for flair, I choose "Diagnosed with S.A.D."

For those wondering at home, S.A.D. = Scotch Acquisition Disorder 



100% concur with this assessment, having recently finished bottles of both Signature and Doublewood. Also included was the Caribbean Cask, which I found to be surprisingly mediocre.

The Single Barrel still stands tall as my current favorite dram.



That's so crazy. Before they changed their website it was part of their range. Now it's not even in the archive section, but it IS in the store. My understanding was that it was there to replace the 10. The website is confusing, so who knows? My liquor store guy told me the other day that the US isn't getting the signature, and I was like "We've BEEN getting it."

I'd just like a straight answer. :(



I know you're all thinking 'Nose, stop reviewing scotches, this is the third one in two days, we're sick of you'.  But here comes another one.  

Balvenie Signature 12 Review.

Colour: Gold
Nose: Banana, rose pedals, hint of sherry.
Palate: Slow start, lemon cream biscuit malt, vanilla, cinnamon coats the mouth.
Finish: bourbon and oak, finishing with honeysuckle. 

The Balvenie Signature is put into three casks, first bourbon, followed by refill bourbon and finally sherry.  This signature malt is complex, I had a hard time picking out individual flavours.  I'm not a huge fan of the Speyside scotches, but I feel that the more I drink them, and more importantly the more time I spend alone with them they more I appreciate them.  Everyone can sit down with an Islay and be wowed by the smoke, but appreciating the more subtle tastes in scotch is equally important as being impressed by the fantastic range of flavours made available by the distillers.  86/100, a solid scotch, but not a must have.  I might have to revisit this one in a couple years as I've only really been serious about  drinking scotch (I've enjoyed it for longer, but I've only recently had the money to enjoy a lot of it) for a year now.    



Everyone can sit down with an Islay and be wowed by the smoke, but appreciating the more subtle tastes in scotch is equally important

Hear, hear. 



ABV:  40 %

Colour: Full Gold

Nose: Rather Sweet actually with some Fruit (Peach, Banana and Orange), Buttered Toast with Apricot Marmalade, Malt, Sherry, Dried Fruits, Toffee/Caramel, Oak/Vanilla, Cocoa and Honey. Not bad but certainly not as smooth as the Double Wood. There's a slight harsh edge to the Nose.

Palate: Bit Thin. Sweet Honeyed Pastry, Spices (Nutmeg, Pepper, Ginger and Cinnamon), Butter, Dried Fruits, Vanilla/Oak, Dates. Again it' s not as pleasant as the Double Wood. I'm certain this spirit would benefit from a slightly higher ABV. 

Finish: Rather short and disappointing with Vanilla/Oak, Spice, Nuts, Toffee and Malt.

With a bit of water the Nose gets more smooth. Buttered Toast with Apricot and Vanilla are in the lead. Palate and Finish become too watery and slightly bitter.

Rating: 81 

Nose: 21 - Taste: 20 - Finish: 20 - Overall: 20

General Remarks: This Balvenie expression was launched in 2008 to replace the 10 Years Founders Reserve. It matures in three different wood types i.e. Sherry, First Fill Bourbon and Refill Casks. Batches are then married together by the Balvenie's Malt Master David Stewart.

Drinking Experience Neat: Okay/Good

Conclusion: I expected way more to be honest. So far I quite liked the expressions of this Distillery but that's not so much the case here. It's not bad of course but it tastes a bit rough and unfinished. I have never had the chance to experiment the Founders Reserve 10 but when I compare the Signature to the Doublewood, the latter wins on all accounts. The Doublewood, although not at all complicated, is really smooth and always a joy to sip. There's always a bottle of it in my cabinet. The Signatory is perhaps a bit more elaborated on the Nose but I didn't like the slightly harsh edge there. On the Palate I found it too thin and the Finish is short and disappointing. I feel a bit sorry for David Stewart because I'm sure he put a lot of dedication into making the Signature. But I will stick to my Doublewood for the time being!



Colour: Gold

Nose: Sherry, banana, honey, apples, smokiness. bourbon. grass, artificial grape flavour.  This is a lovely nose.  

Palate: Sweet, honey, vanilla, ginger and spice, southern comfort, brown sugar, sweet fruits.

Finish: Wood, sweetness, honey, banana, grain alcohol.

This is nice.  Reminds me of the Balvenie Doublewood but a little less sweet and far less syrupy.  This is the second Balvenie I've tasted and now I am interested in trying others.  

Thanks to user PACitizen for this.  We did a swap quite a while ago and this has been sitting on my shelf for some time now.

abv is 40%

I give this a solid 81/100.



Lets see if I make anymore spelling mistakes..

To cheer myself up recently I got a drinks by the dram set... and then got a Balvenie miniatures sample to make a fun vertical tasting. Here are the results.

Balvenie 12 Doublewood - 40%

Got to be honest, I've never really been a fan of this.

Balvenie 12 Signature - 40%

A bit more sweet but less sickly than the double wood if that makes sense. There are less flavours but they?re bigger and better balanced.



Greetings, friends! My second review for today is for a pair of bar reviews I've done during the past 2 weeks that I really need to get posted. Both are Balvenies and both are relatively rarely reviewed here. Specifically, we'll be looking at Balvenie 12 Signature and Balvenie 1993 PortWood.

You'll have to forgive the brevity on some of these notes - bar drams aren't the perfect arena for reviewing. Anyway, off we go.

First up is the Signature, which was my third and final dram at Bon Accord, sipped as a dessert dram after eating a steak pie. Overall, a good night out.

Review #36: Balvenie 12 Signature
12 years, 40% ABV, Speyside, NCF, natural colour
Reviewed at Bon Accord in Glasgow

Nose: flamb?ed bananas, mild apples, malty sweetness, cognac

Sweet and fruity, with a strange cognac note that I just couldn't get away from identifying. Light, with that Balvenie Banana note. Pleasant, overall.

Taste: fresh arrival, mild, malted barley, dark sugar, fresh banana, sultanas, sour, canteloupe/rock melon

Light and fresh and fruity. Something sour, possibly a semi-ripe melon?

Finish: medium length, slightly dry, sweet, melons, dark sugar, tanniny bitterness

Good, but a bit light and short. Slightly bitter.

Conclusion: My faith has been restored in The Balvenie. If more Balvenies are this good, I might even become a fan. A very drinkable single malt that's a clear step up from the DoubleWood in my opion. Complex sweetness while remaining light and malty. 

Score: 83/100

Good stuff with just a few rough edges.

Second, we have a 2005 release of the PortWood, distilled in 1993. Aged 12 years, this eventually turned into the Balvenie 21 PortWood. Baby PortWood, if you will. Anyway, this was reviewed yesterday, so it's pretty fresh in my mind.



Great reviews! I've only had the 12 year single barrel but it was a hell of a good malt. I would like to one day try the 21 year PortWood.

What is this steak pie you speak of?



Balvenie 12 Signature (Batch 3) 40% ABV

Thanks to glinsvad for the sample!

Nose: Lots of honey and sweet malt. Poached pears with caramelised banana and vanilla icecream. Shortbread, cinnamon and icing sugar. Flower pollen.

Taste: Warm and smooth, but thin. Creme brulee and more honey. White pepper, a pinch of salt and cranberry juice. Dry oakiness.

Finish: Sweet liquorice, candied ginger and dry spice. More malt and honey. Medium and dry.

This whisky reminded me of the Yamazaki 12 that I reviewed last night over at /r/worldwhisky, so I just decided to copypasta and change a few things. 

Nice dram but I almost fell asleep drinking it. Better than Doublewood, not as good as Single Barrel.

80/100

Review #61, thanks for reading.



Balvenie Signature 12

Speyside, 40%

*color: amber

*nose: dark grapes, freshly baked bread, honey, vanilla

*taste: honey, oak, sweet cinnamon

*finish: warm, longer than the Doublewood

Similar to the Doublewood, but less doughy, more complex, stronger, more intense.

87/100



If you participated this year, post your mystery Scotch whisky reviews here! There's another sticky on /r/bourbon for American whiskey mystery drams.

Also, check out the new whisky network IRC channel






Mystery dram from /u/Father_Boddingtons

He was generous enough to send me 2 samples. One in a 2oz (probably cause it's cheap crap) and one in a 1oz (probably cause it's Balvenie 50). Any way it shakes out, I had a lot of fun reviewing and enjoying them!

This is the 2oz sample he sent

N: Acetone, sugar syrup, cola, malt, anise, grassy/hay, allspice, candied lemon peel, licorice, slight tarriness, incredible stony/minerality, clean, crisp, orange creamsicle, some tropical fruit notes and vanilla come out pretty well after a bit of air. The alcohol is pretty present in the nose, I forced myself to smell in different areas of the glencairn in an attempt to minimize the alcohol burn. It's pretty strong, but such a complex set of aromas. A phenomenal nose!

P: Fruit, caramel, toffee, pear, lemon, rosemary, big stone, pear, brandy spiritness,  apple -- BIG apple -- red delicious? A real nice bubble gum or sweet fruity gum flavor comes through, along with a good deal of graininess on the mid-palate. Again, just as in the nose, this has high ABV, it's definitely a burner, but with that level of alcohol just brings an amped up flavor profile.

F: Vanilla/boston cream dessert, lemon cream, mineral, passion fruit, super ripe canteloupe. Alcohol not as much present in finish as it was in the rest of the dram. Cotton candy, bubble gum, juicy fruit, long long 20-25+ seconds, more biscuit, grain, and stone shows up the longer the finish goes on. This was a nice long finish that really brought out some of the dessert sweetness and surprisingly the alcohol level wasn't in your face like it was before. 

O: Great balance, great strength and flavor, abv nicely toned down on the finish. This is a really solid dram, tons of flavor and complexity going on. Every time I go back to it, theres the real nice backbone of flavors, but something new presents itself with each sip.

Reminds me of Astar, but some flavors are throwing me off. This seems a lot spicier and cleaner/crisper, with more pear and fruitiness. Very moreish! I get a lot of St George single malt, Glenmo, and Springbank flavors. Definitely 55+%ABV, and unpeated. 
I really enjoyed this, and it had a wealth of flavors just bombarding you from from front to back. This is right in my wheelhouse, and depending on price, I'm gonna need to pick some of this up! 93/100

Since I have to guess...  My first guess is Astar, and second guess Springbank CS? Maybe finished in Sauternes or Calvados?



Spectacular! That Balmenach is out friggin standing! I can't believe for a second it's 25yr...  you can tell there's wood influence, but not THAT much.

The Aberlour, comparatively speaking, seemed about 10+ years older. Most likely that's due to the first fill cask. It really was a spectacular whisky up until the finish. It was a big letdown for me. Otherwise, it's spectacular.

Thank you so much for the generous pours!! They were both delicious!







