Bit of an odd review for me, just enjoying a pour with a warm grain and arugula salad. But I found the flavors of this Balvenie spoke to me, so I started to jot down notes. Unusual glass for reviews, but I find this narrow single-malt glass is pretty good for nosing despite being my go to for a more casual dram. I got this whisky on sale for $90, usually around $120

Nose: Honey and briny sea breeze. Orange-spice tea.

Palate: honey, spice and light smoke. Mesquite honey. A unique taste, not overly sweet, really nice balance of flavor, very light cinnamon & clove, candied orange peel

Finish: light smoke and spice linger, slightly sweet, warm, very pleasant

Sum Up: The label promises spice and smoke, and that was mostly delivered. A really interesting spirit, 17 year old Balvenie finished in casks that were previously used to age Peated whisky. and then married with other Balvenie that was aged in...yada yada yada

I found the nose a bit light, as the smoke didn't come through, but the sippin' is glorious. Just enough smoke to dampen the sweetness without marring the honey flavors, a definite win. 88/100 Even at this price I think a one time purchase for me, though I really enjoy it & I'm glad I have a bottle.



Yes , it's sort of a mystery . I read somewhere they had the Peated whisky stored somewhere, but who knows. Maybe they still do or they sold it off - I wasn't cc 'd on the memo

I like to think there are giant stainless steel vats of Peated whisky in the dungeon of Balvenie Castle...



I was in a booth in a bustling gastropub on a just-cool-enough Friday night for a friend's birthday when I was told they were out of Ardbeg.  So I went with my second choice.  Why not have my fourth Balvenie?  I seriously cannot get enough of the diverse finishes from those genius bourgeois Dufftownspeople. This particular 17 is finished in a refill peated whisky cask.  43%, $100.  

Nose: light peat, malt, grass, plum, and fireplace embers.  No friggin' way this is a Balvenie...  

Taste: smooth with a late bite, bourbon, oak, bittersweet -- very similar to the 15.  Finish is sudden: seaweed, green pepper, black pepper, okra, and finally lengthy notes of malt and wood.  

At the bar, I remarked "if this isn't an ex-Ardbeg cask, I'll eat my shoe!"  Well, I am not Werner Herzog, but I am quite wrong.  As it turns out, Balvenie distilled their own heavily peated whisky, matured it for a time, then refilled the casks with their 17.  Awesome finishing move. I would love to know the PPM of this original spirit and, more importantly, what they did with it!  98/100



So, exactly how peaty is it? Compared to say, Ardbeg, Talisker, or HP? 

I swear we need some kind of peaty grading rubric.



this makes me happy... got one of these unopened in my scotch cabinet...  wondering how long i can keep it unopened before i crack...

This is a bottle i probably won't get my hands on easily again..



Its finished in casks that were used by Laphroaig.

Edit: My mistake the Islay Cask 17 was Laphroaig. Balvenie used their own casks from some peated whisky they had made.



Greetings Scotchit! More samples getting reviewed as I'm still woefully behind on swaps. This one's one of the 17 year old special releases that Balvenie put out a few years back. They've gotten pretty pricy nowadays, but are they any good?

Let's find out!

Balvenie 17 Peated Cask
Speyside, 43% ABV, NCF?, NCA?, 60ml sample from Whiskysite

Nose: Citrus, lemons. Crisp smoke. Toffee. Oak. Ashes. Wine tannins.

Initially, I wasn't picking up any smoke behind the citrus, but it came out over time.

Taste: Quite prickly mouthfeel. Sour citrus. Lemon peel. Toffee. Slightly bitter oak. Smoke and ashes. White wine tannins. Limestone.

Not peaty in the traditional sense, more of a sour ashiness. There's also quite a lot of light bitterness here, but it's not too off-putting.

Finish: Medium length. Lingering ashy peat. Citrus. Lightly bitter oak. Toffee. Lemon zest. Burnt wood.

OK, mostly just more of the light peaty ashiness. 

Summary: I mean, it's definitely not a big peat bomb, more of a subtle ashy peatiness, most likely due to the use of just the peated cask and not peated malt. In that sense, Ardmore comes to mind and it has a lot of the same subtle peaty notes. 

Do I think it's a great Balvenie? No, not really. The extra citrusy punch subdues the honeyed sweetness that makes Balvenie rather good and replaces it with a sourness and a smokiness. 

Much like most Balvenies, this skirts the edge of greatness and instead is just OK. 

Score: 79/100
OK.

Most Similar To: Ardmore Traditional rCask, Lagavulin 12.

Buy Again? Can't, but no.



Yeah, I think I enjoyed this one more than you did. Granted it's been awhile, and I was on vacation (I think? might have been a review bender), however I do remember enjoying this more than you.

Granted I think I'm a sucker for a honey note I always pick up in Balvenies.



Balvenie 17y Peated Cask

(43%, new American oak + previously peated casks, 2010 release)

?

The Balvenie Peated Cask is comprised of a mix of 17 year old whisky finished in new wood, blended with 17 year old Balvenie finished in casks that previously held heavily peated Balvenie (from an unreleased experiment distilled in 2001).

Thanks to u/Saba007 for this sample!

?

Nose: Honey, vanilla, oak, peach, digestive biscuits, citrus, hints of grass and nuts

Taste: Honey, vanilla, malt, toasted oak, longan, nutmeg, cilantro

Finish: Oak, longan, parsley, tobacco, black pepper

?

A pretty classic Balvenie nose? quite lovely, nothing surprising and everything in harmony. The notes from the new wood are evident, but not overdone. The peated influence is negligible so far, but every once in awhile I pick up the faintest hint of something lightly charred in the background. The classic Balvenie notes extend through the taste, light sweet/sour fruit in the middle and some baking spices with a soapy herbal taste bringing up the rear. The peat is light, and to me mixes in with the oak to give it a lightly toasted dimension. Finishes a little sour/bitter (like from the longan in the taste, trailing off into fresh green herbs) and malty with a bit of a peppery tingle.

Initial reaction was to write this off as ?here we go again Balvenie?, but the more time I spent with this one, the more it grew on me. While all the standard gripes about Balvenie still hold true? it?s definitely soft and watery yet there?s something here that kept it from being completely boring. The peat isn't really noticeable at all? but seemingly adds a slight extra dimension to round off notes in the background (as is the new wood), while still retaining the core Balvenie nature. If you like Balvenie, this is definitely worth a try? if you don?t like it, well this one won?t change your mind.

?

84/100



The official press release was a little light on details, but did state that "In 2001, a heavily peated batch of barley was bought from a local supplier and distilled at The Balvenie Distillery". 

From a third party source anecdotally quoting an interview with a Balvenie ambassador (but talking about the upcoming 14y Peat Week), "?it is a very different Balvenie. It is still sweet and honeyed but it adds obviously a peated character. But it is not like a Islay peat because we use St. Fergus Highland peat so the flavors are quite different?". 

Assuming they didn't switch suppliers between 2001 and 2002, you'd quite possibly be safe in assuming Highland peat? Hard to say for sure.



Review 232: Balvenie 17yr Peated Cask

Thanks /u/xile_ for the sample. Whisky aged or finished in ex-peated barrels make for an interesting results, ranging from good, bad to ?meh?. 

Nose: Vanilla, cherry, honey, melons, not much peat at all, grassy, shortbread. 

Palate: Light, honey, oak, malty, touch of smoke, leather 

Finish: Pepper, honey, leather, grassy, hint of vanilla. 

Score: 82 

Little thin and uneventful, no peat which surprised me. Needed more character



What the hell. 

Nice review.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with the first review of the year!  Merry New Year to all.  This is #2 from my /r/scotchswap with Bigpapi.  Balvenie Peated 17yr old 86proof

only the second Balvenie I've had and it's leaps and bounds better.  Much more complex than the Doublewood.  

90/100



And they use other species of agave, and it's generally done in smaller lots so there's more uniqueness.

Mamjjasond: I tell everyone who wants to try half decent tequila two things. One, it must say 100% de agave or similar; the 100% has to be there otherwise it's crap. Two, blanco is straight from the still, reposado is aged 3-11 months, and anejo is aged 1+ years. You can pick up a 100% agave anejo for $25 or less which is a pretty small risk, but nevertheless a decent drink.



How much money do you want to spend? Do you want to sip it or mix/shoot it?

My standard drinker and standard comparison is El Jimador reposado. I can get a handle for $30. Supremely drinkable, goes well in just about any mixer, good enough to drink straight, but not interesting enough to sip; I've not tried the anejo version though I will sooner or later. It's not that you can't sip it, it's that it doesn't quite have enough character, in my opinion. Pretty smooth. I also like Agavales because it's priced as the bottom of the well ($12 for a fifth) but it's 100% agave and pretty decently smooth. [If you do the math, that comes out to $2 cheaper for 1.75 than el jimador... therefore, I choose jimmy.] As a side note, el jimador did for a while (a couple years?) make mixto shit so if you get that brand, make sure to read the 100% de agave part.

Hornito's and 1800 are both inoffensive and relatively inexpensive as well. But both are more expensive and, in my opinion, not as good.

I do experiment by picking up random bottles because like I said, $20-30 is not a big investment; if it's not great, it'll still get people drunk just fine. I do stay away from any "interesting" bottle as it will almost certainly be extremely overpriced. Don't bother with patron, but I do hear good things about don julio.



Hi Scotchit! Cake_my_day back with a another malt moment:

The Balvenie 17 Peated Cask

Speyside, 48.7%

Non chill-filtered, finished in peated casks and new American oak casks.

color: amber

nose: caramel, soft smoke, oak, honey, almonds, blood oranges, vanilla, red fruits, hay

taste: soft peat smoke, sweet apricots, oranges, intense honey, vanilla, good cask oak, cinnamon

finish: black pepper, coco, hint of cola, sweet banana, more honey and oak, long

The peat smoke is subtle and stays in the background, it's more one note out of many than very dominant as in peat bombs.

Wonderful nose, natural, intense sweetness on the palate, and a that-is-so-good-I-wanna-chew-my-tongue-finish.

91/100



I?m not a huge fan of Balvenie, I find their whiskies overpriced and underwhelming, but like any good peat head, you mention the word ?peat? and I?m all ears. This one was finished for an undisclosed period of time in a cask that previously held peated whisky (something a few distilleries are doing now with varying degrees of success). Anyways it had me interested and I?d been dying to try some. Thanks again to the VIP area at Whisky Live Tel Aviv for making my dreams come true.

Aged 17 years. 43%ABV. Finished in casks that previously held peated whisky.

Nose: Honey. Light herbs. Grass. Peaches. Hint of dirt. A slight leather note.

Palate: Grit. Dry wood. Lychees. Oranges. Spice, lots of spice.

Finish: Medium long. Spicy. Slightly earthy. Slightly citrusy.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: No

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: N/A

Balvenie strikes again. Underwhelming whisky. I barely felt the peat cask influence and really just got more of the same, fruity, spicy Balvenie that?s in all the other Balvenies. This sure feels like a gimmick to me.

Reviewed in my blog:
https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2016/08/06/balvenie-17-peated-cask/



I've had this one as well. While I originally didn't care for it, it eventually grew on me.

I agree that there's very little peat influence if at all. I originally got a bit of a bubble-gum like flavor which might be what you describe as lychee.

I've saved the bottle and tried it a few times since and it's actually not my least favorite Balvenie. I do enjoy it on its own. But satisfy a peat-head? Not at all. 



I got this long ago in a swap with /u/PACItizen. looking forward to seeing what peat does to this spirit.

Appearance:  yellow gold. Decent legs. 

Nose: typical honey you expect from Balvenie. Molasses and sugar. Lots of vanilla. Not really detecting much peat. A little bit of smoke in there. 

Taste: very light peat smoke; not strong at all. Soapy flavour with lots of honey, cherries, berries and sugar. Briney-ness comes after a while too. lots of wood influence, which makes sense given its age. 

Finish: a bit iodine-y, some peat in the long run. Warm and spicy.

Rating: 87/100

I've enjoyed this more than any other balvenie I've had to date (listed below). It's got a bit more complexity, likely owing to its age, and while the peat is subtle, it's present and adds a new level to the honey-sweet palate that dominates Balvenie spirit. 

Previous Balvenie Reviews:

Balvenie 12 Doublewood

Balvenie 12 Signature

Balvenie 16 Triple Cask

Balvenie 14 Caribbean Cask



Hello you mysterious and magnificent malt meisters, 

By now you've all sent and received your mystery drams, so let's begin the fun part - reviewing them! 

Let's put your palates to the ultimate test and see what you think of a whisky you know nothing about.  Sure you can see its color, fill your nostrils with its aroma, and submit your palate to your whisky, but can you guess what it is without any preconceived notions?

So go ahead, and post your reviews for all to see.  Your mystery partner will be watching, and judging, and let you know here in this very thread how close your guess is to what you actually received!






I'm living away from home right now, and my wife brought my sample when she visited last weekend.  She didn't have the box, so I don't know who my match was or if they even disclosed that on the package.

I've also been fighting a horrid sinus infection, but I think most of the damage has passed, enough for me to try to write a review.

Initial Impression / Ambiance:  I'm in my hotel room alone watching "QuickDraw" on Hulu (shit's pretty funny by the way).  I'd guess that this is above 43% ABV, but it drinks pretty smooth, so it's either not a cask strength and is somewhere in the middle like 50-55%, or it's an older dram or both.  I'd guess at least 15 years, but you never know with quarter cask and barrel stave techniques if it's been artificially accelerated.

Nose:  Floral and rich.  Very complex, with oak, sugar, caramel, apricots, honey and coffee.  There's a lot going on, but it's quite beautiful.

Appearance:  Looks like scotch.  Darker than a lot of them, but still scotch colored.

Taste:  A very agreeable marriage of fruit and malt.  There's some peat, but no smoke.  Just the subtlest hints of vegetal peat, and big sweetness.  Think berries, raisins, sugar, toffee, etc.

Finish:  So smooth.  Really makes me think it's an older dram.  More malt and even more sweetness.

93/100

Thanks to my match, I really enjoyed this one.  I don't have any real guesses as to what this might be, but if pressed, I'd say an Islay or Highland.  It's plenty sweet to be a Highland, but the peat makes me think Islay.  Maybe it's something like a Peated Ardmore, or one of Bruichladdich's thousands of offerings.

Or, I could be completely full of shit and it's bourbon.



Me too. Hate it (the 10). Tried giving it to my friends and now they hate me.

But texacer and Allumina both claim it's crazy good.



Mystery Sample #4

Colour: Burnt wood

Nose: Sour green melon, wood, cinnamon, burnt orange, sand, very light peat

The peat only comes out after 30 minutes of sitting back and nosing this. It's very subtle. Smells familiar too... almost like my last shipment that had a mystery dram in it... hmmm..

Taste: Peat, cinnamon, dry pear, licorice, smoke, lime rind, pepper, tar, vanilla fudge

The peat surprised me like my cat jumping out at me in the dark. Wait, why is that the most surprising thing for me? Geez, I have to get out more.

Anyway, nice spices, good tar and smoke, great sweetness, just enough dryness to balance things out.

Finish: Peat, mushroom, black licorice, cocoa, burn

Simple yet nice finish. There's a bit of burn here that may put you off, yet otherwise it's peaty, earthy, and a little sweet and bitter. Kinda like me.

Conclusion: I could see myself sipping this and enjoying a nice evening. Or in this case sipping it and watching more Top Gear... yet I digress. It has a slow, evolving nose, just enough peat and fruit, and a simple yet not unpleasing finish. I'd buy a bottle.

84/100

My Guess: Benriach Athenticus 21 year or Benriach Septendecim 17 year

Actually The Balvenie 17 year Peated Cask


#3 -  Peated - 46% AVB 

Interesting fact: this whisky doesn't use peated barley, but actually ages in casks previously used for the peated Islay's to get its peat notes.

Colour: a very pale straw 

Nose: a vague impression of peat and smoke, definite sweetness

Palate: creamy, vanilla and citrus with some apple and a bit of tartness, not much peatiness or smoke here. I would say this is a gentle whisky.

Finish: now this is where it gets interesting, after the first few sips the vanilla seems to get peatier, and its right on the end that the smokiness shows up - which is a pleasant surprise!

Score: 90/100 - this is something complex and needs further exploration.




Mystery! Review #13

Region: Islay

ABV: 50+% Strong. Probably a cask strength  

Cask: Sherry

Age: Very rich and strong. I'd say this is 15+

Colour:  Darker amber

Nose: Lovely deep and Earthy peat and very sweet. Rich, chocolaty and fruity. Apricot, sherry, rum and raisin, vanilla, cherry and apple stew. Peppery, salty and slight brine.

Palate: Full bodied. Sherry and a soft peat. Sweetness comes early and fades to smoke. White pepper and salty, but well balanced. Fruits and spice in equal parts with peat and smoke. Awesome.

Finish: Medium length and fairly dry*. Smoke and peat, and slightly nutty on the tail (I did just eat some cashews actually...). Smoke is very fresh and woody. Ends with smoke and pepper, becoming slightly bitter. Very warming. Very enjoyable.

Score: 93/100

Comments: This is great. One of the sweetest, peaty drams I've had. So rich and warming. This has got to be from Islay, unless it's a peated highland or something. It's not Ardbeg, Lagavulin, Laphroaig, or Caol Ila, which are the one's I'm familiar with, so I'd guess it's one of the B's. Thanks to my match. I was pre-warned that the bottle was accidentally labelled so I asked my girlfriend to open it and remove the label... But she didn't hang onto it so you're going to have to clue me in on what it was. Cheers!



