For international whisky day I'm pouring from a pair of higher end samples from my whisky muse /u/Kilrathi. No idea if he likes being called that or not!  First up, a one ounce pour from a two ounce sample of Benrinnes 23 year old Sherry cask at 58.8% ABV.

Nose: sherry fruit up front - raisins, prunes, dank grapes. A hint of cinnamon, a hint of moist wood, and a tiny bit of gunpowder or burnt matches. A while later... Roast beef with a heavy gravy and a sprinkle of curry powder. This is really slow to open up - yet another while later... It's turning sweeter now, almost apples.

Taste: bitter oak, dark dark sherry plums, some peppery burn, but not really as much as the proof suggests. Black tea, a touch of sugar, and jam on toast. One time I thought I got a wee bit of smoke.

Finish: a good bit of heat on the way out, and some fire into the belly. Aftertaste is again of dark sherry fruit with black pepper, but it doesn't last long.

So this one was weird for me. Firstly, it seems to be quite popular here. The nose definitely lived up to the hype, with at least three layers unfolding over time. But the taste and finish were rather one dimensional (old sherry wood) and fell rather flat for me. The hype makes me feel bad scoring it where I want too: I am going to defer assigning a score until I taste the second ounce.

Score: 80/100

Would I buy it again? At this point I am glad this is a sample and not a bottle.

*edit: added a score



this bottle actually came to market 5+ years earlier, so... why now?

Well, I can certainly understand how a whisky will connect with the drinker one time but not another time - it's happened to me quite often.  That's the reason why I saved the second half of my sample for another day, actually.

Thanks for the complements!



Great review, and one that's thought-provoking as I revisit the bottle.

As for whisky muse, I'm not sure that my one-Scotch-review-no-flairness merits muse status but glad you've enjoyed all the samples.  If anything, seeing you take the time to review all the stuff I sent you is a good inspiration to get some more reviews of my own done!



It's the king of sherry bombs

I hadn't thought of it this way, but you are correct.  When I think of the phrase "sherry bomb" my thoughts go towards young and brash whisky, but this too is a sherry bomb in that sherry dominates to the point of hiding the malt flavors.



but this too is a sherry bomb in that sherry dominates to the point of hiding the malt flavors.

Which imo makes for a poor whisky. One that is so masked by one particular flavor or cask that none of the beautiful malted barley comes through nor any of the raw spirity goodness.



It's the king of sherry bombs

Okay I gotta say: You need have tasted an awful lot of malts to declare that!  Have you had any GlenDronach single casks?  I was sipping on a 23yo one last night, and I'm quite sure it's a better contender for king... or queen for that matter :-)



I just  mean it's  at that end of the spectrum. There's  little flavour other than what's  imparted by the sherry, and it's  pretty high abv for its age.

Im not saying it's  the best sherry bomb, just that it's  about as sherried as you can get before your just aging sherry in ex-scotch casks



to the point I'd think I was drinking old sherry if I tasted it blind.

Which is the opposite of what I like in a whisky. I want interesting flavours and textures, not straight up 'scotchit sherry BOMBS' which are generally one-dimensional and just may as well save my $500 and get a $15 sherry.



Recently I once again had dealings with our Danish member.  /u/Scotch_Fanatic sent me the pictured mystery bottle as a part of our swap. I questioned him about how he managed to get a girl named Sherry to pee in the bottle for him. Eventually he broke under the pressure of interrogation and revealed that Sherry is a goat. Let's see what we've got, shall we?

Initial Impressions: reminds me almost exactly of my recollection of Benrinnes 23

Nose: an absolute ton of old wooden sherry, so much so that I'm having a hard time finding the malt notes. Plums, a hint of black pepper, and some sweetness like a candy. No plastic funk, and no savory meats either.

Taste: here we get salty/savory notes, along with wood, and also grapes. The sherry component is still the overriding feature, but it's much less dominant. The sweetness is withheld, but this is still full bodied and satisfying.

Finish: smoke, sweet funky fruity smoke that lingers....

I can imagine a beef jerky that smells, tastes, and finishes exactly like this. You know how when you open a pack of raspberry beef jerky you smell the raspberries overwhelmingly, and then when you taste it they go away, only to return in the aftertaste? Yeah, this is sherry beef jerky, right like that. Now as I said before in my Benrinnes review, the old sherry dominant is not really my thing. Here, the aftertaste saves it a bit, but still... 

Score: 82/100

The dominant sherry hides the malt here, so I am not sure what spirit lies beneath. And this is a segment of the scotch market I'm not that interested in, so I truly do not know what is out there.  Here are the things I think I know:

Thickly sherried

20 years old

ABV percent in the low 50s

From Europe

It very well could be goat piss. This sherry is strong enough to hide it.

So how did I do?



Brilliant review!

Your initial impression was bang-on! 

This was, indeed, Benrinnes 23 Year Old (OB). 



I've been waiting to try this ever since I got my first taste of Benrinnes 14 A.D. Rattray,  which became my favorite whisky after trying a sample. The 23 needs no introduction, so I'll suffice it to say thank you to /u/dustlesswalnut for sending me a sample. Expectations are so very high, can they possibly be met??

Benrinnes 23

Strength: 58.8%

Color: Amber. 

Nose: It's got a similar nose to the Benrinnes 14, but a little less bright and a little more oaky. There's more complexity as well. Sweet perfumy red fruits, jammy berries, and juicy plums play across the nose. Sherried Benrinnes whiskies have a distinct fruitiness that's different from many other sherried scotches and it's solo good. The age shows here more, with leather and oak. 

Palate: A bright burst fruits- strawberries, plums, and kiwis. A musty refined quality is noticable, the same quality that really good old Bunnahabhain has. Cherry codials, milk chocolate, and cinnamon. A touch of pepper. 

Finish: Cocoa, black tea, fruit pies, and spice. It has the lovely finish of a really good GlenDronach Single Cask. The oak is dominant as the long finish lingers, but never overpowering. It gets just a touch of bitterness from the oaky tannins. Wonderful. 

Summary: I agree with /u/dustlesswalnut's assessment- this is Benrinnes executed perfectly. It has all the best qualities of a sherry bomb and an old sherried scotch. A m?nage ? trois of Benrinnes 14, Bunnahabhain 25, and GlenDronach Single Cask PX Puncheon. Those are three of my favorites, and they've all just been bumped down a rank to make way for the new champion. 

Score: 98/100 

Scotch Review #80

Whisky Review #156

@review_bot scotch 'Benrinnes'



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Benrinnes reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Alright guys - this bottle was supposed to be a limited engagement bottling; not many of them in the world.

Does /r/scotch have half of the production or something?



Greetings Scotchit! The train keeps on rolling towards its inevitable finish in the texacer Mystery Dram series. This is number 6 of 8. Any good?

Let's find out!

texacer Mystery Dram #6
???, 1oz sample from /u/texacer

Reveal:
Benrinnes 23
Speyside, 58.8% ABV, NCF, NCA, ?190 for 700ml

Nose: Cask strength. Oloroso sherry. Wood, cedar and incense. Baking spices, cardamom. Apricots. Cognac and old rum. Molasses and burnt brown sugar. 

Taste: Big mouthfeel. Dry, spicy wood. Dark Oloroso sherry. Cedar, incense. Cardamom. Malt. Wisps of smoke. Cognac. Underlying maltiness.

Finish: Long and drying. Wood. Cedar. Incense smoke. Wine-y sherry. 

Summary: I'm gonna stick with the Benrinnes guess. This one smells older and woodier than any I've previously had, but still retains that Benrinnes molasses-style note. In comparison to yesterday's Benrinnes, this smells infinitely older.

On the palate, incredibly woody. Might even be a bit too much for my preference. Lots of cardamom, possibly the most intense note of it I've ever encountered in a whisky (Finns use a ton of cardamom). However, one thing you definitely can say for this is that it doesn't lack on complexity - no matter how many words I put down, it's just not quite right.

This is good stuff, but might be too woody for my preferences. This reminds me of some Japanese whiskies I've had, like Nikka Yoichi 20 and White Oak Akashi 14, but with a bit more sherry and maltiness. 

Still guessing, this time relatively confidently, that this is Benrinnes 23. 

Score: 91/100
Great, but maybe too woody for me.

Buy Again? Eh... The price for the 23 is pretty intense. I'd rather get two and a half bottles of the 14.



Yaaayyy. 

This sort of super-woody whisky isn't really my thing. The ones I mentioned above had the same problem - super-complex, not very drinkable.



see wood never bothers me at all.  same with bourbons and hyper aged ryes.  unless its like 40%abv the other flavors dominate my palate.  

see now you dont have to buy this one!  YOURE WELCOME



Nice, Benrinnes is on the list for my next lot of purchases. Not sure which one though.

First I've made a promise to myself that I will finish all the bottle that are less than half filled.



Benrinnes 23 - 58.8% 

Normally I do not remark on the color, but my goodness, this is a beautiful deep red. Thanks /u/LetThereBeR0ck for the sample. It was well worth the wait. 

Nose: Sherry, lots of sherry. Sweet and wonderful red fruits. Almost creamy.  Little bit of cinnamon. 

Taste: Sweet fruit, strawberry jam and raisins. This is the best sherry aged whiskey I have ever tasted. Leather and peppers round out this wonderful dram. 

Finish: The warm finish lingers. Not overpowering by any means, but it stays on the tongue. Spices and fruit dance in my mouth. Wonderful stuff, this is the best whiskey I have tasted so far. 

Rating: 96  

Cadenhead?s Benrinnes 25  - 53% 

Thanks /u/TOModera for the sample of the Benrinnes 25. It certainly made for an interesting contrast between two well aged Benrinnes. Unlike the Benrinnes 23, this is aged bourbon hogshead. The color is incredibly pale in comparison. 

Nose: Citrus, pear, some honey and tropical fruit. Muted in comparison. 

Taste: Sweet and chewy. Coffee and dark chocolate, with lemon and notes of honey making an appearance again. 

Finish:  Soft finish that stays with you for awhile. Apples and soft spices. Well rounded, though not as deep or flavorful as the 23. Warming. 

Rating: 88 

The Cadenhead?s Benrinnes is a very good whiskey. It is light, sweet with a good depth of flavor. The Benrinnes 23 is the best whiskey I have ever tasted. The sherry aging has created something amazing. Wine aged and finished scotches are a personal treat, and this is a perfect example of how good they can really be. This is a pricey bottle in Canada, but I am damn tempted to get one. 



I should drink more

You don't need the rest



Very interesting! Glad you enjoyed each of them. I haven't had the chance to review the Benrinnes 23 just yet. Seems really tasty.

I will agree, Benrinnes Sherry do usually have a bigger depth of flavour than Bourbon Benrinnes. That said, we both gave roughly the same score for the Cadenhead's, so I should love the 23 when I get the chance.



Nice review! I agree that the Benny 23 is absolutely top notch. The only other whiskies I've tried that compared are Benrinnes 14 AD Rattray and GlenDronach Single Cask PX Puncheon, both of which I sent you samples of! 

If you haven't finish the entire Benrinnes 23 sample, I'd recommend trying it blind against the two above, and maybe GlenDronach Cask Strength and your Single Cask PX Puncheon too. 



I plan on doing a side by side of the Benrinnes 14 AD Rattray and the Hart Brothers 14 Benrinnes. So, the same bourbon vs. sherry cask aging, but much younger.  

I still have half the sample of the Benrinnes 23. Though it was hard not to drink the whole thing at once. I may do a blind tasting of many of the sherry aged/finished whiskies that I have. 

I really wish the Benrinnes 23 did not cost $400 here. 



Poor Hart brothers, they don't stand a chance! Benrinnes 14 is perhaps the only scotch that I am completely confident that I can identify from the nose alone. In every blind tasting of sherried scotches that I've done, I picked it out purely on the nose, including the one where I was trying it for the first time.

$400 is steep. I got it for $230, and that makes it solidly the most expensive bottle I've purchased. 



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  ECB was kind enough to send me a sample of Benrinnes 23 year old 117.6 proof.  His review claimed to be 100/100.  Well of course I have to find out for myself.  Benrinnes isnt a super well known brand.  Its mostly used in blends.  This Benrinnes has been aged in Sherry Casks or 23 years and still maintains a great ABV.  I mean how good could it be?

Pffft, clearly not 100/100.... ok, wow, just damn. so lively for 23 years.  supremely balanced.  succulent and strong full bodied.  I'm very impressed.  I had to try some Macallan CS side by side before I scored it and the Benrinnes here just barely noses it out.  they are close, but this just has a bit extra pizzazz.  guess I'll try saving up for a bottle.  should be getting some bday money soon!

99/100

2nd time in a month I've given this rating.  Laphroaig Portwood was the other.  top two now.  still chasing that 100/100 dragon but damn close with both.  



Thanks for validating my review of this :)

It's like Mac CS with age, pizzazz, and spice. 



Glenfarclas 20 yr CS

I think Uncle has this...



Thanks for the review on this White Whale Whisky. So this stuff is Europe only, owned by Diageo, and is used in blends? So it's used in Johnnie Walker? 

This guy quote their liters per annum at 2.6 mil. So why the hell can't I get any?! 



I seem to remember just like the Blair Athol 12 I bought, Benrinnes features in blends and has a single malt bottling as part of the Flora and Fauna range. But a 23yo...oooo!

According to wikipedia "Between 1974 and 2007 the distillery used a unique partial triple distillation process" - so erm...does it resemble Auchentoshan? 

That said all that sherry character is making my mouth water. Care to compare it to anything besides Macallan CS? I can't find that in Europe.



it does not resemble Auchentoshan at all.  I read that about the triple distilling and I thought the same thing.  I was hoping it wasnt going to be mild.  

I guess if I were to compare it to something else, it would have to be another sherry bomb like Aberlour Abundah.  Where the Aberlour is more alcohol heavy and harsh than the Benrinnes 23.  This stuff is pure gold. I bet you could compare it to your Aberlour 16 CS that you got.  



Benrinnes 23

Speyside, 58.8%

Thanks /u/dustlesswalnut for the sample.

color: mahogany

nose: Sherry, plums, dates, lilac, sulphur, blackberries, hint of licorice, chlorine

taste: blackberries, blackcurrants, eucalyptus, sulphur, blueberries, plums

finish: strawberries, rhubarb, ginger, woodspice, mint, tomato plant

Intense nose with some off notes (not very disturbing though). Heavy dark fruits on the palate. Think of any dark blue colored fruit you know - it's there. Spicy finish with massive tannins and a tiny sourness.

88/100



Your notes for the 23 match up pretty much exactly with my experience of it. 

One of the only sulfur-y sherry bombs I have enjoyed, somehow it's not as off-putting in the 23 as some others I've tried. (Mortlach being a prime example)

I have to yet to try my sample of the 21. I really should get to it.



So for my 50th Scotch, and 100th whisky network review I figured I should pick a good one, so here we are.

One of Diageo?s special releases from 2008. Diageo just released a heavily sherried Benrinnes as part of this years release as well, a 21 yo version this time, but for a lot more money than I paid for this. Typically Benrinnes is used for blends, as OB?s are practically nonexistent aside from a Flora and Fauna bottling that I don?t think makes it to the U.S. Benrinnes can also be found being sold under the name Stronachie in case you?re out there looking for some. Also, until 2007 whisky distilled at Benrinnes underwent ?partial triple distillation.?

23 years old. 58.8% abv. No statement about chill filtration or coloring, but I doubt it in this case.

Nose - Oh wow this smells sweet, with a lot of fruit and spice. Strawberry preserves, raisins, toffee, clove, cinnamon, allspice, nutmeg, all on top of vanilla ice cream, with a musty, tired and somewhat muted old wood and leather element in the background. Everything about sherry (I think PX here, as the earthy elements I normally associate with Oloroso are muted if not missing) has been turned PAST 11!

Taste - Starts on a fruity sweetness ? the strawberry preserve, and raisin notes mentioned on the nose, with dark chocolate and  a bit of toffee, tobacco and wet wood chips ? with the spices coming on in a BIG way on the development ? clove, cinnamon, allspice, and enough heat to bring cayenne to mind. Very full bodied, and somewhat creamy even.

Finish - The spices (same ones as mentioned on the nose and palate) linger for a long time and in a big way, with a tart fruity element (that strawberry preserve note again) and a hint of tobacco.

Well I spent a good chunk of change to get this shipped over from the UK as an Xmas gift to myself based on the reviews of this around here, and it doesn?t disappoint.  This one feels like it was bottled exactly when it should have been, as the barrel influence is certainly there with all the big spice notes as well as some faint oaky and tobacco ones, but the oak hasn?t begun to overwhelm the fruity, sweet sherry notes, which are there in a BIG way. It?s also worth mentioning this holds up to a splash of water fairly well ? the spiciness diminishes somewhat which makes the other elements easier for my senses to process, but besides that I don?t think my notes would change too much. I think the only thing that?s keeping it from being my favorite whisk(e)y is that it ends up being just a touch too sweet ? despite that, it?s got enough good stuff going for it, and in a big enough way, for it to pretty easily make my personal top 5.

96/100



Nice review! I've got a sample of this that I haven't tried yet because apparently I'm crazy. 

Need to crack it open and review it! 



This bottle to me seems like the pinnacle of what the Benrinnes stills could ever produce. I can't imagine how the spirit, the casks, or the age could be tweaked even minimally to produce a better whisky.

I agree that it's not a daily drinker, and it is incredibly sweet, but it's such a fantastic sherried beast that I can't not enjoy it. It reminds me of 20y+ IB Bunnahabhain minus any peat influence. 

I may have gone overboard on the bunkering of this one, but at barely over $200 shipped (probably higher now), I can't think of anything I would have rather bought instead. 



Good to know! You made me even more curious about 23 OB, especially as the price as a little bit lower then TB IB. 

Regarding polish shop, there are only 14 bottles are left. I'm saving up for that exact bottle (i just had a sample) and i hope I'll be able to snatch it before it's gone! 

Do you have any other recommendations, knowing that i LOVED that one?



this is really nice, but is a bit too standard Speyside to stand out from the pack. 

this sample was a gift from /u/Devoz, and what a fucking gift! It's an OB from 1985, aged entirely in sherry and bottled at 58.8% ABV. I can't even. 

Appearance: even darker than the 14, more red than orange, with equally thick legs. 

Nose: mellower than the 14 with a lot more oak and less sherry-esque. Lots of fruit, strawberries, other berries, honey, cherry cheesecake. 

Taste: wow. That?s quite the dram. Big sherry taste, cherries, berries and more red fruit. Lots of spicy oak, cinnamon, vanilla. Hotter than I expected after 23 years and based on the nose. Sweet but not over-powering. Seems like a different type of sherry than the 14. I added a few drops of water to the last little bit just to see how it opens up. Takes on a more leathery, earthy quality with some added spiciness. the wood is more pronounced too. damn... i daresay a few drops actually improves this and deepens the complexity. 

Finish: long, sweet, woody. 

Score: 93/100

this is one of the nicest sherried drams I've ever had. I tend to prefer peat to sherry, but the sherry here wasn't so sweet to overpower the malt. This ties with some of my highest rated peated malts, and is the highest score I've given to  a Speyside too.  If only sherried 23 year old drams were more readily accessible? guess I'll have to wait for the market to crash. well done Benrinnes. 

so good stuff! I didn't give some of these high 90s like some here, but that's probably just my anti-sweet tooth talking. very nice drams, and if i could afford it, I'd drink some of that 23yr every day. 



Hey Dram Fans, hope you're having a nice day! I'm currently great because I'm writing up the second of a 4 part series on a pretty sweet pub called Pub L'Isle Noire, which if you're ever in Montreal, you should check out.

Or don't. I'm not your mother.

Anyway, I was sitting there, ready to do 4 reviews, one per region, and I realized something: Fuck Highland.

Wait, no. Don't. Because then you'll be having sex with an inanimate object. Unless of course your whisky is sentient, at which point you should run away fast from it, or realize that you're in a mythical book I'm maybe working on.

So I may have lied before. I said that I only had one or two "bucket list" drams, when, in fact, I've had a few. And this ended up being one of them. I said "Fuck Highland" and skipped it, and jumped right into Benrinnes 23.

What else do you need to know? It's limited edition, it's made in 1985, and it's /r/thick - ly sherried as hell. Also that link is NSFW

It's also cask strength too, and hard to find as a thing in a hard to find place with lots of stuff.

That's how tired I am folks. So let's just see how this one tastes, shall we?

Price: N/A in Ontario

Region: Speyside

Abv: 58.8%

Colour: 2.5YR 2/8

Nose: Chestnut, grapefruit, oaky, cherry, peach, red licorice

So you look at the colour, and hear about the dram being thick, and once your whisky-boner goes down... you relax enough to breathe, and smell... not red fruits?

Odd. It's really well balanced. Sure, the red fruit elements pop up eventually, yet aren't a sherry bomb like I know them. More so it's really well balanced and acidic and oaky and sweet and everything that has to do with happiness in a sherried whisky.

Taste: Cherry, anise, lumber yard in Spring, basil, walnut

So some drams have lots of flavours. Some have complex flavours. Some have big, big flavours.

This one is more of the big, big flavours, yet at the same time the wood is so intense that it set off memories of going to the lumber yard and somehow not ending up covered in splinters and without digits, like my grand dad.

Finish: Anise, chicory root, strawberry, rosemary, blueberry, orange, pepper, ginger

This is bonkers. This finish is on fire! And not in that burning way, or in that "went to too many strippers" way. I mean insane, tons of flavours that are all really showing up and playing a good part.

I don't even like chicory taste and I'd be sad to see it gone here. This is really good

Conclusion: So,,, yeah, I guess it's okay. A good 4/7, if you get my drift.

Putting aside being a turd muffin, this dram is probably one of the best Benrinnes I've ever had. Well, wait, let me check my scores....

Okay, it's up there. It didn't quite go to the depths of others, however it's super tasty, and for that I'm happy about it. The finish is well balanced and nuts, the nose is a great surprise, and the taste is well put together with good showing on each individual flavour,

I paid $28 for 1/2 a dram of this one, and I feel like I got my moneys worth. Trust me, it's that good.

87/100

