Color: Pale Gold

Nose: Light but pleasant Fruity Nose with Peach, Pineapple, Orange Zest and Fresh White Coconut Meat. Very clear Butter tone as well. A bit more in the background I find some young Oak, Vanilla, Malt, Cereal, Honey and an Earthy tone. It?s not outright Peat but more like Grass.

Taste: Slightly thin delivery.Sweeter than expected after the Fruity Nose. Honey, Custard, Marzipan, Caramel. Light Spices (Cinnamon, Pepper and Nutmeg), Young Oak.

Finish: Sweet at first with Honey and Sugared Roasted (Pea) Nuts or even Peanut Butter. However, Spices (Nutmeg and Ginger), Lemon and Apple lead to a quite dry finish in the end.

I added a couple of drops of water and the Nose gains Floral and Malty Notes. On the Palate however the added water does no good and the Finish becomes too Sugary. I prefer this Single Malt without the extra water despite its 43%

Rating:   84.5 (out of 100)

Nose 22 ? Taste 21.5 ? Finish 20  ? Overall 21

General Remarks:  The BenRiach Distillery is located just outside the city of Elgin. It was founded in 1897 but was closed down for many years during its lifetime. Currently it?s one of the few independently owned distilleries in Scotland. Annual production capacity amounts to around 2.8 million litres. All whisky is aged in ex-Bourbon Casks.

Drinking Experience Neat:  Good

Conclusion: Very light and pleasant Speyide Nose with lots of Fruit and Grassy tones. On the Palate this Single Malt was a bit sweeter than I expected. The Finish starts (too) sweet but ends up clean and dry. A minor point of criticism would be the Oak. I would not easily give this whisky 12 years. Especially in the Finish but also on the Palate I find the Wood a bit young and harsh. Not an all time favorite of mine like the 16-Years but certainly a well crafted Single Malt that I can recommend to beginning Whisky drinkers and friends of a not too complicated but efficient Speyside Malt.



Cool, I have a mini of this I almost had last night but ended up going to bed way too early instead.

I just had a mini of their Heart of Speyside (NAS). I must say there are some similarities between what you describe in the 12 and the HoS, but I found the overall experience a little underwhelming. The finish was definitely dry but with the HoS it was very, very brief. I've been meaning to do a write up of it (and all of the BenRiach's I have- HoS, 12, 16 and 20 (21?))- but I've been pretty busy.

Thanks for the review.



REVIEW #135: BenRiach 12 year - 40% abv

Nose:  Tupelo honey, sweet floor wax polish, vanilla, cream of coconut, banana, honeysuckle, 

Taste: creamy, vanilla, custard, banana, lightly burnt sugar, salt water taffy, light caramel cream, oily (but not thick) on the tongue, much less hot than the 10yo, 

Finish: quicker finish than the 10yo, oak, chocolate malt balls, lemon oil

Score: 84/100 

Buy a full bottle? no

Closing Thoughts: I don?t think I really care all that much for bourbon matured whisky.  Sherry influence is my thing, so while this was well made and tasty, nothing really knocked my socks off.  The 10yo is a mix of sherry and bourbon casks and comes across with more complexity and depth, despite the heat of its youth.



This is the youngest unpeated, age-statement BenRiach, looking past the Heart of Speyside NAS
and the peated 10 year old Curiositas. I've never had a BenRiach before (somehow...), 
so this should be really interesting!

Color: Amber -2

Aroma Neat: Molasses, Soft Oak, Fruit Punch, Vanilla Bean, Metal Polish, Wax, 
Sweet Malt, Soft Honey, Coconut (slight), Bananas Foster. Woody, with a restrained,
rum-like sweetness and fruit bits. Gentle and nuanced, very nice. 

Aroma Water: Wood, Sawdust, Oak, Vanilla, Rich Honey,  Rum, Aerosol, Barley Malt,
Cinnamon, Nutmeg, Mulling Spice, Baked Apples, Green Moss, Wax. Water brings out some 
spice in what is still a slightly sweet and complex nose.

Taste Neat: Malt (sweet, golden, and lots of it), Candle Wax, Juicy Red Apples,
Apple Cider, Tannins (lots), Oak (plenty), Sulfur Hint, Dry Sherry (slight). Tasty,
moderately sherried palate with reasonable completity. 

Taste Water: Malt, Wax, High Tannins, Oak, Barrel Char, Bosc Pear (slight),
Vanilla (slight). Very similar to neat, but loses some complexity. 

Finish: Sulfur (slight), Sherry (slight), Low Tannins, Menthol (slight), Apple 
and Pineapple Juices(in background). A warming, but short-medium duration finish that 
is relatively simple and light. 

Conclusion:

Clearly Speyside, but there seems to be a good proportion of bourbon casks in the mix.

Very enjoyable nose.

Decent palate that is best neat.

Slightly underwhelming finish (I'm excited for older expressions!)

Well made, good casks.

Rating: 86/100

Edit:
Oh, if you care, I started a blog which you can check out here. Thanks!



Thanks for the reminder! In a relatively short time frame I'll be reviewing about 5 more BenRiach's.

Edit: Also, thanks for cherry picking review 1000 while I get stuck with lowly review 999!



:D    

i'm a dick



Not to make you jelly, but a lot of the stores near me have that :-)

I probably won't get it soon, but I'd love to hear what you think of it.



I checked there and Supermarket.  At least I'm pretty sure I checked there, I know for sure I checked Supermarket.   I actually end up talking to the guy at Wilburs about scotch most of the time I go in, nice guy.  At Wilburs I ended up with a Japanese whisky.  Supermarket I ended up with the Balvenie Caribbean Cask.  I might check there again though.

I go to both quite a bit as I work just minutes from Wilburs and depending on my route home supermarket is on the way.  I find both can have better prices on different bottles, like Wilburs sells the Balvenie Portwood for $50 more than Supermarket.  

But I am up in Wellington and the guy at the store here will order me most things too.  Plus I'm not in a hurry, if I bring home much more without finishing the bottle the wife will probably say something.



This is: ...well, there's no other way of putting it. This is none other than the BenRiach Lamborghini Curiositas Superleggera. The fastest single malt whisky... in the world. Seriously, it's a 10y peated Speysider from a distillery quickly climbing in my esteem. 46%ABV, $50  

Color: light gold.  

Nose: peat plus BBQ... iodine, cinnamon, and pine, then malt balls, bacon, beef jerky, hickory, and maple.  

Taste: organic, sweet, plus heat... grassy peat, coriander, bell peppers, walnuts, malt, rye, honey, and a vague suggestion of Malibu rum.  

Finish: tart & savory... toasted garlic, char, lingering smoke, black pepper and lemon.  

Conclusions: What a fantastic peated whisky. The tangy smoke chased by sweet maltiness is just staggering -- I mean that's Talisker Veyron territory! It's young, with some fire in its guts, also like Tali. But unlike Talisker's 10y offering, there is no sea salt, less spice, and the more grassy, springtime notes you might expect out of a Highland scotch. This is good. Real good. And at $50, when compared to equally-price entry level Islays, it looks even better. But this is not a peat monster. And the only time it saw the sea was looking out an airplane window from a carry-on bag... probably. As it sits, in my stomach and in my nostrils, I have to say I'm won over. BenRiach peat -- wherever it's from! -- is tasty stuff. 90/100  

Comparisons:
The biggest comparison here is Highland Park 12. At Binny's they are the same price. HP12 is known far and wide as a "balanced scotch." And it is. It's a rather mature 12, though a bit watered down, and the sherry adds an extra dimension; and they toned-down the peat which keeps it from dominating. Now, that's not what is going on here. This is an average of two extremes: Islay smoke and Highland wind. And it's not mature, but it does have a wee bit of oomph and a delightful savory quality. I rate them the same.  

This is: BenRiach 12 from the same sampler pack. Now, there is another version of this out there bottled at 46% ABV, which I have tried before. I'm not sure if this one is a watered-down sampler exclusive or not, but I'll review assuming this is the newest version and you can get a 750ml bottle. It costs the same as the Curiositas, and for that price you get less a lower ABV, no smoke, and whole 2 more years in the barrel. 43%ABV, $50  

Color: light gold... same as the 10.  

Nose: bourbony... apples, vanilla, malt, and white wine.  

Taste: smooth & sweet... more malt, extra virgin olive oil, and big honey.  

Finish: sour... unripe green grapes, lime, blueberries, copper, walnuts, and slight rubberiness.  

Conclusions: not bad, but not good either. Lacking in depth, but inoffensive, I thought it tasted like a more sour and somewhat underdeveloped Glenlivet. 79/100  

Comparisons:
BenRiach 12 46% - 80/100
Glenlivet 12 - 81/100  

this is: BenRiach 12. In order of how I tried them, this was my third 'Riach. This was also my first unpeated offering from these Speyside malt masters.  

46%ABV, $50  

color:  light amber.  

nose: sweet & light... Big malt, lots of cinnamon, wheat toast, and slight dark rum.  

taste: sweet & thin... Honey, Werther's, more malt, corn flakes, and cantaloupe.  

finish: sweet & way too short... Whoppers, more honey, toffee, and green grapes.  

conclusions: Smooth, saccharine, inoffensive, and bland. It would be good with breakfast, if that's something you're looking for.  

80/100  

comparisons:
If I tried this in a blind taste test, I would have guessed it was Glenlivet 12. Although there is less fruit and oak than that Speyside staple, which I give a slight edge at 81/100. Additionally, there is another version of this out there bottled at 43%, which is an expected notch worse at 79/100.



After a bit of time away from /r/Scotch reviews due to bourbon and stomach flu (no relation) I decided to review a few scotch samples tonight. I picked three in matching clear sample bottles because it amused me to match them up that way.

Ben Riach 12

Initial Impressions: salt. Wtf?

Price: It's weird - I have access to a bunch of other BenRiach expressions, but not this one. This is another sample courtesy of /u/tintin777 Thanks almost anonymous person from the internet!

Nose: much more laid back (delicate is, I think, the correct word?) than the previous dram. A bit of alcohol up front. Salt again. Vanilla and cinnamon, with something sour hiding beneath.

Mouthfeel: thin

Taste: lightly salted bourbon flavors - vanilla, oak, caramel. Cinnamon, and fairly sweet, but more of a sugar sweetness (as in caramel vanilla) than fruit. 

Finish: here we get a flash of fruit, apples, then a slight burn of alcohol. The aftertaste touches cinnamon, vanilla, and crisp green apples on the way out

A weak nose, but a tasty finish. In reading other reviews, I feel like the notes are all over the place. It's almost like it's so weak and inoffensive that everybody finds something different in it. I could see myself getting this confused with Weller 12 in a blind tasting. I'm just saying.

Not sure if the salt would have been as noticeable if I'd done these first two in the opposite order; I'll have to eventually redo this one I think. For now, a B.

Score: 82

Would I buy it again? Not sure I would, even if I could. If it was cheap, maybe, but I don't think it would be. I'm sure I'll want to sample it again one day.

BenRiach 12

Strength: 43%

Color: Gold.

Nose: Thick, sweet, and fruity. Canned pineapple that's soaked in a sugary syrup. A little vanilla and citrus fruit. Fresh melon.  

Palate: A rush of sweet but delicate malt, like funnel cake with powdered sugar. A lovely sweet lemon note sweeps in and it has such a soft mouth feel. 

Finish: The sugar caramelizes and molasses takes over. Oak pops in to say hi. Warm and comforting finish that doesn't quit easily. 

Summary: A step up over the 16 for sure. The finish is way better, and it is all around more interesting. Lovely stuff. 

Score: 87/100 

Review #31: BenRiach 12
Speyside, 43%, 50ml sample

Nose: sweet and sour apples, sweet malted barley, dark sugar/syrup, cherries

Pretty standard unsherried bourbon cask Speysider. A nice cherry note that's hard to pin initially, but otherwise bog standard apples and malt.

Taste: medium mouthfeel, rich malt, toffee apples, sour berries

Lots of caramel and apples, with an underlying malted barley flavour. Sweet, but not overwhelmingly so. Turns sour after a few seconds, but the transition from sweet to sour is slow and steady. Almost no burn.

Finish: medium length, warm, sour apples, malty, salty caramel, mild bitterness, slightly dry

Steady burn at the back of the throat, but overall pleasant and warming. Inoffensive, with nothing too much to write home about.

Conclusion: Honestly, a bit disappointed. BenRiach do crazy things, so trying a whisky that's so standard from them seems like a let down. I mean, why bother? Don't get me wrong, it's not bad. It's up there as one of the better sweet Speysiders, but it is boring. The BenRiach spirit seems to be consistent and simple enough that they can stick it in any wood and let the wood decide what it tastes like. In this case, it's drinkable and fine, but I wouldn't buy a full bottle.

Score: 75/100

Just average.



The label on my sample bottle says 40%, but Binny?s site says 46%.

Nose - A nice mix of bourbon cask notes. Honey, butterscotch, vanilla, pineapple, ginger, pear, green apple, black pepper, and a rich, malty note.  Pleasant, fruity, kind of a ?normal? Speyside bourbon matured Scotch but with the malty and fruity notes somewhat amplified, and the ginger dialed back a bit?.kind of leads me to think there are more first fill casks at work here, at least, based on the nose alone.

Taste -  Starts off a bit drier than the nose would suggest. Honey, ginger root, vanilla, green apple, pear, light smoke, white tea, cream soda, and some black pepper. Less fruit and vanilla than I expected given the nose. Somewhat thick, grippy texture.

Finish - Black pepper and raw ginger are the strongest and linger the longest. I also get honey, vanilla, and very light smoke here. Finish fades a bit quickly.

This is pleasant, but not amazing ? that said, as an entry level Benriach, I think that?s what it?s meant to be. Not a bad pick if you?re looking for those Speyside-y light fruit notes, but there?s a lot to choose from with that flavor profile.

85/100



Before I get started, let's just get this out of the way

There, now that that's out of our systems, we read the TIPS I wrote about the spirits I SNIFFED and put in my mouth.

Wink.

Anyway, BenRiach is the big ONE today (Wink), and each of the reviews were done on a separate SESSION (Wink). I've read some interesting things about BenRiach, and given that Bruichladdich is bought up, we may have to start going to BenRiach for a ton of different flavours. BenRiach is independently owned, and recently expanded by buying Glenglassaugh and Glendronach.

Just saying, the bottles may not look like women's perfume bottles, but the whisky is pretty nice. Something to consider.

Anyway, let's see what my smattering of BenRiach's are all about.

Region: Speyside

So to start off this bonanza bevy of BenRiachs, let's go to the BenRiach 10 year Curiositas. This four time Silver Medal (International Wine & Spirits Competition) winner is made with a heavily peated malted barley and is aged in oak for 10 years. It's suppose to be a return to what Speyside malts tasted like in the 19th century. This is my second time reviewing, so let's see if I rate things lower when I don't know what they are.

Re-review: Original review here

Price: $64.95 (CAD)

Abv: 46%

Colour: Sunflowers

Nose: Peat, pepper, lemon, cinnamon, anise, molasses, ginger

Reminds me of a gingerbread cookie in the smell. Well, an alcoholic gingerbread cookie.

Note to self: Make alcoholic gingerbread cookies.

Taste: Rose water, Peat!, pepper, lemon, cream, pecan, nutmeg, oil, habanero, smoke

Wow, they don't kid around with saying this is heavily peated, this is really, really peated! There's a great consistency to it as well, and a slow buildup of heat, like habanero peppers.

Finish: Peanut brittle, orange, peat, dark chocolate, pepper, dry

The finish is a return to the nose, in that the sweetness is back, yet this is different as there's a lot of dry elements to it, and just a little acid from the taste opens it up.

Conclusion: Let me just say this is an amazing dram. It's dry enough, acidic enough, and peated up to 11. However I have to dock marks for some of the heat and the almost constant changing tones from nose to taste to finish. It almost changes too much on me, and in retrying it I realize that I enjoy it, however I probably wouldn't have it too often.

85/100

Up next we have one that I don't see too often: The BenRiach 12 year. Yup, not the sherry finished, nor the port finished peated (with their fancy names that sound like they summon demons), this is BenRiach letting the whisky age without any finishes or peating it up. 

Not that that should turn you away, as the 12 year has actually won multiple Silver Medals from 2005-2012. So let's see if this lives up to its younger brother who smokes a lot.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 43%

Colour: Coors Light

Nose: Brown sugar, plums, orange rind, pear, pear, Genoa salami, floral, ginger

Very sweet nose, with faint wisps of spice. Hard to pick it all out. I didn't pick out any wood, yet the website mentions that, so I may have mixed up the faint wood with the ginger or spice in the Genoa salami.

And yes, I wrote pear twice, there's quite a bit of fresh pear scent here for me.

Taste: Ginger, mineral water, pepper, cumin, mint, general herbal flavour

Very much has a mineral flavour to it, yet not without going too bitter. Fair amount of herbal flavour throughout. Like having a plain salad with pepper on it almost. I think the sweetness mixed with the herbal flavour to turn into a Ginger taste for me.

Finish: Basil, citrus, sour melon, spearmint, tarragon

And more herbs. You know, maybe there's more to it, and I try to let it breathe some more to let some flavours develop, or add water, yet it's mostly just herbals flavours. Reminds me of some Frankenstein creation of a dry Chardonnay, J?germeister, and Creme de Menthe.

It could be that Tannic flavours, which others have noted, take center stage on my tongue, and it ignores everything else. In this case the fruit was present, yet the tannic flavours took over.

Or perhaps I'm going insane.

Conclusion: This isn't really the type of dram I'd normally go for. It's dry yet not too dry, and really herbal. The website describes quite a few flavours of chocolate and spice, yet I didn't get them from the dram I had. I'm wondering if it's a bad dram or not, as I've read through others reviews and they had more luck. Oh well, hopefully it hasn't turned, yet I'll try it again in the future. For now, here's my rating:

74/100

Colour: Pear juice (this is yellow)

Nose: Brown sugar, banana extract, honey, tart grapefruit, lime, violets, plums

A very lively, sugary taste to this one, with some acid and floral notes coming out as time goes on. If you don't like sweets, then you're probably skinnier than me and I hate you.

Ahem, I mean you may not like the nose on this one. Closer to a traditional Speyside than the last ones, that's for certain.

Taste: Caramel, salt, lemon pepper, cloves, metal, cherry, currant, melon

Some spice, butter, acid, and fruit, however the fruitiness takes the forefront over anything else.

Also has a little bit of a taste of metal in there, which is off putting. Unless you like metal flavouring, then more power to you.

Finish: Sour, mushroom, lemon, off nutmeg (nutmeg that is starting to turn bad), coconut meat (the inner meat of the coconut, as in the white inside of the shell, which is the brown outside, as it's a coconut, which is a fruit from a tree, look it up), leather, cilantro, wheat

The tannic and sour flavours have matured into something that's a lot more palatable and enjoyable, almost meaty. It has some heat and a little bit of smokiness mixed in, and even a little of that wheat you sometimes get with bourbons. This is nice to sip on a mild day.

Conclusion: This was a great dram to relax with. It is balanced, it has some nice fruit flavour to forget that Toronto is under a blanket of light snow and freezing temperatures, and while not perfect, is miles above the 12 year. I'd go so far to say that even at a $40 increase (assumption, I don't actually know the price difference in your area since the court order), this is worth it.

83/100



