Hello Scotchit! For my tenth review I have an other sherried whisky: the BenRiach 12 Sherry Matured. This
is actually one of the first bottles I bought (third one I believe) and I've been working on this review 
now that the bottle is getting dangerously low. This bottling is a vatting of whisky matured in Oloroso 
and Pedro Ximenez sherry butts. 

BenRiach 12 Sherry Matured, Speyside, 46% ABV, non chill filtered, natural color, $70.50 CAD / 700ml @SAQ

Color: Amber/copper. A bit lighter on colour than the GlenDronach's but still pretty dark.

Nose: Raisins. Quite sweet and fruity.

Taste: Lots of raisins, but covered in (milk) chocolate. Caramel! It really has this dried berries and
chocolate mix going on. I also get a slight spiciness.

Finish: Oaky chocolate covered raisins.

Overall: I really like this one. It's a little on the winey side but has those caramel and chocolate
notes that compliment it very well in my opinion. I'm glad I had this bottle at the start of my whisky journey
as I think it's a very enjoyable dram with a great flavor profile. I prefer this to the GlenDronach 12 for 
sure, I find it fruitier and more rich. The GlenDronach 15 gets the better of it though but is more expensive.
I would also love to compare this to the Aberlour 12 NCF but it's currently not available locally and it's
been a while since I've had it. All in all this is a good whisky for someone looking to explore sherry and 
definitely pushed me into trying more.

Score: 84



Hi Scotchit! So this is my first review to the Benriach 12 Sherry Cask, which I just bought today. First a few notes to myself, I?m quite new to scotch as I had my first real scotch August last year, a few days after my 18th Birthday. Since September I?m studying in Aberdeen, Scotland, and due to several tastings of the Whisky Society, after around half a year, I already tried quite a good amount of scotches. My favourites are the whiskies matured in sherry casks, so for my first review I chose a sherry cask whisky.  

Benriach 12 year old, matured in Pedro Ximenez and Oloroso casks., ABV 46%, non chill filtered, natural colour

Colour- dark golden, amber coloured

Nose ? The nose is typical for a sherry matured whisky, you can smell sultanas and a bit cinnamon but also bit of autmn fruits like apples or pears

Palate  - The second the whisky touches the tounge, you can taste a wonderful sweetness, afterwards flavours like vanilla and honey, but also a bit of dark chocolate fill the mouth. After I tried it a second time I could also taste dried fruits, such as raisins or figs and maybe some dried apricots, and cinnamon. 

Finish ? the finish lasts rather long and is not so sweet like the palate but a bit drier, you can taste still some hints of fruit, but overall the finish is more woody, you can really taste the European oak, used for the casks.

Overall I enjoyed this whisky a lot. The flavours are balanced really well and nothing dominates. I love the balance between fruity flavours and sweet, woody, spicy flavours.  As a rating I would give it a 90/100 

So far for my first review, I hope you enjoyed it!



Benriach 12 Sherry wood

It?s been a few weeks since my last review (a week of partying and an equally long recovery period). And I?m back with an impulsively bought whisky, but Benriach is loved and I love sherry matured scotch so it should be fine, right? Anyway I?m going tartan-hunting this week, so I got 2 more lined up today.

Speyside, 46% ABV, ?40    

Tasted neat from a glencairn, rested 20 min.

Color: Benriach says: ?deep gold ? bronze? finally a distiller that doesn?t need poetry to describe a color.

Nose: A lot of raisin in this one, cinnamon, orange, cherry candy, licorice. It reminds me of that smell when you open a new bag of candy, good memories. A bit one-sided though

Palate: Raisins, something weird is in here, licorice, spice, some herby note. I love this. It?s still one-sided but the licorice is much more on the foreground which improves the taste.

Finish: more of the same, but you won?t hear me complaining. A bit short though.  

Conclusion:Not bad, I definitely don?t regret picking up a bottle but I prefer the Aberlour NCF a lot. It?s a great daily drinker which I?m probably going to pop out when I?m drinking with some friends. Would I buy another bottle? See above.

Score: 83



finally a distiller that doesn?t need poetry to describe a color.

The ones that use caramel are usually guilty of this. Trying to propagate the whole myth that colour=quality. 



Benriach 12 Sherry Wood Matured (Single Malt, Speyside, 46% ABV, 12 Years Old, Non Chill-Filtered, Natural Colour)

Price:  $90 for a bottle, though I got a dram for free.

Tasted:  A dram from a friend?s freshly opened bottle?it?s his first bottle of Scotch, purchased with help from yours truly.

Colour:  Amber +3

Nose:  Sherry (so surprising), largely Oloroso with a tinge of Pedro Ximenez. Yeasty/fungal notes, walnuts, dark cherries, complex spice melange, salted caramel, cat tails/pussy-willows, swampy/bilge water. Sour lemon and flour, like the precursor to a lemon meringue pie. The scent of a filthy aquarium/aquatic pet store. Maple walnut fudge, white pepper, dog breath, halibut, Swedish fish (candies), coleslaw, slight oak note, allspice and hazelnuts.  

Palate:  Salted peanuts, creamy caramels (an individually wrapped caramel candy), lemon drops, spices including cinnamon, hot smoked paprika, white pepper, and demerara sugar. Hot dogs with extra ketchup, vinegar, another spice that?s somewhere between chili powder and curry powder. Pralines.  High viscosity?coats the palate and rest of mouth completely.

Finish: Tannic, tart, tangy grapes. Pickling brine, cherries, cherries, cherries, pecans, maple walnut fudge returns, grape jelly, figs, purple peppers and salt water taffy. Not too long, but not too short. Falls nicely into the sweet spot.  

Conclusion:  A very well-balanced whisky. Some sherry influence can be overpowering or poorly implemented, so this being fully matured in an ex-sherry cask worried me. That said, the doubt/fear was misplaced. This is a very well-constructed and balanced whisky: A perfect balance of sweet, spice, sherry, nuttiness, with a soup?on of bilgey pond scum thrown in to keep everything tied together. That might sound undesirable, but it somehow just works, and works well.  

I?m quite fond of this, and am jealous of the fact that my friend owns the bottle of it instead of me. That said, I?m sure I can convince him to share a dram of it again in the future?and I certainly look forward to it.

85/100.

@Review_Bot



/u/noblearc's  reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Review #s 24 & 25  - A Tale of Two Distilleries - BenRiach 12 Matured in Sherry Wood & GlenDronach 12 Year Original

Thank you to u/cpfselfbuilt for both of these samples! We were able to come to a quick agreement and get both ends delivered under threat of postal strike. I'm really looking forward to comparing both of these as I am a huge Glendro fanboy but have basically no exposure to the big brother BenRiach.  I forgot to get a picture of the BenRiach but here?s one of the GlenDronach as well as my new Glencairn Travel Case, which has already come in handy.  Drank on consecutive days.

GlenDronach 12

?

Region: Speyside

Abv: 43%

Colour: Burnished copper

?

Nose: Red fruits, bit of toffee.  The youngest GlenDronach I?ve had or reviewed while on my current GlenDro bender.  Some definite youth to the nose and not as dark or rich as I?ve come to associate with this distillery.  Some light artificial sweetness.  

Taste: Taste the comparative youth here and it?s a bit thin on the mouthfeel. Dry wood, red fruits, some pepper.  Caramel.  Spiciness. 

Finish: Rather short for a GlenDronach.  Red fruits some wood.

Notes: Probably about on par with Glengoyne 12 I had recently.  Decent everyday drinker, but I?d like a bit more in terms of intensity of flavours and complexity.  For the price in Ontario, it?s a pretty good bargain.

Score

79/100

BenRiach 12

?

Rested 10 minutes ? Copita with a bit of water

?

Region: Speyside

Abv: 46%

Colour: yellow gold 

?

Nose: Very nice sherry note. Turns to a brandy soaked raisins. Dry baking spices. 

Taste: Fairly creamy Sherry, green tropical fruit. Hint of raisins. Candied figs. 

Finish: Sweet Sherry and drying wood which makes me really want to take that next sip. Sultanas which linger quite some time. Very light and airy of the finish and not heavy like a Glendro. 

Notes: Very solid and for an equal price if take this over Glendro 12. Maybe this is because it's bottled at a higher proof (46% vs 43%). Takes sort of an opposite approach on that its very light and airy. This is overqualified to be a daily drinker. Does lack complexity but really happy about the quality of this dram and makes me want to try other BenRiachs. 

Score

83/100

Conclusion:  I definitely need to spend some more time with the GlenDronach 12, but I would say that the edge for these two reviews goes to the BenRiach 12



I thought the BenRiach was 43% as well?

Either way, the Glendronach opens up into a really nice whisky after a couple months. Perhaps it's just changed a lot from the old batches to the new ones.



I think the version we get here in Ontario is 46% but I'm not too sure - oh confirmed by cpfselfbuilt that it is in fact 46%

I'm going to have to revisit the Glendro as I'm starting to think my palate might have been off the night I drank it (set aside a bit) - but I was very surprised by the benriach as I have little exposure tonl this distillery 



Good notes, glad you enjoyed the samples.

I find them about equivalent in quality, but different in character (Glendronach seems bolder in some ways, the BenRiach is more refined). Of the two, I would probably also trend toward the BenRiach - but it really depends on mood.

Oh, and the 12 matured in sherry wood is indeed 46%. The Glendronach sample was one of the old batches (before the possibility of new make could come into the picture). Both bottles opened at the same time, a little over a year ago.



Thanks again! I really enjoyed both and was just surprised at how good the benriach was - I have very little exposure to the distillery and had no pre conceived notions about this dram going in!

Oh wow! I'm going to have to revisit the Glendro - I'm starting to think that my taste buds might have been off when I drank it



Trust your instincts. The Gendro is very popular in most places, because of its excellent value for the price. But fewer have heard or experienced the BenRiach 12 sherry wood.  Among experienced reviews, it is pretty consistent to see the BenRiach preferred.  

In my whiskyanalysis.com meta-critic database, it's basically 8.6 for the Glendro vs 8.7 for the BenRiach (both on 20+ reviews each, and both with a low standard deviation).



Thank you for the comment!  You are 100% right and my gut says I prefer the BenRiach - I think that with reviews, pre-conceived notions play a bigger part than most admit and so its such a good experience in cases like these to compare and contrast and in the end come down to gut feel

Wow really neat site!  What was the inspiration to start it?  Will definitely 



I was originally interested in doing a proper statistical analysis of whisky flavour (i.e., cluster analysis from a controlled vocabulary of expert reviews, followed by principal component analysis). But then I discovered that has already been done for single malts, by David Wishart. :) I strongly recommend his "Whisky Classified" book.

So instead, I expanded on his clusters with a different group of reviewers that I follow, for newer whiskies. The novel part of my site is the statistical method for normalizing and equating different reviewer scores (and scoring methods). The background pages explain it all. The end result is the most statistically-valid way of score integration that I've seen for whisky reviews.



I'm going to have to read that book!

Thats awesome!  I've always wanted to see something be actually statistically relevant haha - with a big enough sample it would be pretty awesome to be able to have a way to say something is better than another and have it be statistically-valid!

How long has it taken you to put this all together?



Well, I took 6 months to build the basic site, and compile the original database.  I have nearly tripled the number of whiskies since then, and more than doubled the number of reviewers. 

I currently spend at least half an hour each day just updating the database with new reviewer scores for existing whisky entries - plus continue to add new whiskies, new reviewers, and my own reviews.  It is pretty extensive now.



Wow that's dedicated!

Is or was there a number of reviews that you have calculated to be statistically relevant?



It's described on the background pages on the site. There are different ways you can assess this, but typically you need 7-8 reviews before you can be reasonably confident the average score won't change significantly with more reviews.

Of course, that depends how you define a significant change, and how much variability that particular whisky shows.  There is an interesting example on the site called "When Reviewers Disagree". 



This series is in response to a request from mrz1988 for more Benriach reviews. I love Benriach so why not help get the word out! All the reviews in this series are done from my notes, the actual whisky is long gone! 

This first part consists of two tastings which were done from some mini bottles I picked up at half price due to faulty labels (it should be pretty obvious from the photo... :P )

BenRiach 12 Years Matured in Sherry Wood

46% ABV, NCF, Natural Colour

Nose: Sweet vanilla oak, coconut, European oak spice. Freshly baked raisin bread, some dried fruits and nuts.

Palate: Lots of sherry oak, nutty fruitcake, stewed apples. Nice balance of sherry sweetness and dry oak with a spicy kick in the middle. Hints of chocolate and prunes towards the end.

Finish: Ripe plums, quite fruity but also a sweet vanilla oak note throughout. Dried cherries, cranberries.

Overall: Nice, a great value sherried dram. Not overblown on the sherry, quite pleasantly balanced.

A































