Greetings, malt mates! Thatguy here with a review of yet another heavily sherried Benrinnes. The hype train continues to roll on for this distillery. WE GET IT, IT'S REALLY GOOD.

This is Sherry Butt #6864. This whisky was distilled on September 2, 1998 and bottled on September 21, 2012. There were 449 bottles made.

Thanks to /u/Father_Boddingtons for the hookup last this year!

Benrinnes 14 Year (A.D. Rattray) - 55.2% ABV - $99 for 750ml

This distillery sucks.

SCORE: 96/100

@review_bot 'Benrinnes'



/u/thatguy142's Benrinnes reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Maybe, it's rough. You can make order requests for things not in their selection (usually with a minimum amount of bottles and extra shipping fees) and at that point you aren't even guaranteed to even get it. 

I might look to order one online or try to find one the next time I'm traveling. Any suggestion of a bottle? I know everyone who tries it seems to love the 23 but the price tag is also quite high.



Dude, did you know DK has an SMWS chapter?

Are you a member? If not, do you want to be next year? We could split the membership cost and the bottles. 



Benrinnes 14 A.D. Rattray 1998, 55.2% 

Finally I get to try the fabled Benrinnes!

Nose: Wow, unique. Persimmon? (I haven't eaten many persimmons and may not be correctly remembering their flavor.) This may not be helpful but it also reminds me of these particular grapes they eat in Korea, you can't eat the skin because it's too thick so you pop it in your mouth and get out the pulp and then spit out the seeds and skin. Anybody know what I'm talking about? Also vanilla.

Taste: Silky, luxurious sweetness, with a touch of savoriness thrown in. Straightforwardly decadent. Reminds me of brandy. 

Finish: Fairly mild in flavor and length. The aftertaste of a creme brulee or similar dessert, with cream and caramelized sugar.

Boom. 95/100

Well. Neither of these two whiskies would be out of place served as after-dinner drinks by a rich-ass oil baron following a sumptuous French dinner cooked by his private chef. They both make me feel like I'm sitting at a handmade chess board in a leather chair in a roomy study rather than my little apartment in the far reaches of Brooklyn. The Glendronach is a bit more interesting but both are grand. Thanks for spoiling me, /u/LetThereBeR0ck. 



Scotchit-Review #21: A Canadian Mystery ? brought to youme by /u/TOModera

Hey there Mysterydit! The r/scotchswap MYSTERY swappedidoo put me in the mood for mysteries and luckily there are some in my sample cabinet. This one came to me through the courtesy of Canada's only (?) member of the 500 (!) and more review society /u/TOModera. Thank you once again for a smooth swap! Let's dive right in as there's nothing I can tell you about this one...oh wait, there is something: It's labeled 'Mystery S1' and has 55.2%

Situation: In a cozy chair, a bit tired but in a good mood, just inventoried the newest arrivals from Denmark...no music as I'm to lazy to get the headphones from the living room

Color: I usually don't care much about color but dude! this one is quite brownish or, well, since it's TOModera's mystery sample i'd say it's quite 2.5YR 6/16 -ish

Nose: first impression was wow is that liquidized honey by the look and the smell it just might be! Sweet with a long eeeeeeeeeeeeee, honey, quite floral as well, think heather honey would be a fitting description even though I never tasted it, there are raisins in the background as well as a slight tart grape-like note, waxy, hazelnut. Nice!

Palate: a not at all sweet entry, wow that was a surprise, nice but not what I expected after the nose, more fruity, but the next sip is sweet front to back then, [damn I should have taken notes on the first sip instead of enjoying it ;] but not bourbon/vanilla/brown-sugar sweet but a more rounded, well, honey sweetness, a creamy mouthfeel, I really want to say it's waxy but it's not, OK this is old, spend some time in sherry (or similar) butts, I would say PX, but I haven't really had neither the original PX Sherry nor some PX finished whisky. I'm not going to start and say this is not this and not that, because I know it will end up in being exactly that! Ha! But it's too sweet for being Oloroso. The sherry (or other!?!) almost overpowers the rest of the dram. There are floral hints as well as some toffee notes behind the cloying sweetness. Nuts, plum. And it drinks very pleasantly, if the abv would not have been on the sample bottle I would have thought it's in the 46% range rather less. I would say it's a Highland. Not so sure about the age anymore, initially I thought it was older and in the 18yo range but I wouldn't be surprised to find out this is a NAS release.

Finish: chocolate and mocha notes show up and hang around quite long, nice finish! The cask strength add some nice peppery aspects, very nice finish indeed! Very slightly drying.

Would I buy it again?: No! Just closed the hunting season! :)

Score: 87/100 

Guess: I would go with Glen...farclas or GlenDronach, the only GlenFarclas I had isn't even close to this (but it was ?just? the 12yo) and the GlenDronach 15 I had, had some watery aspects I don't find in this one...I guess it doesn't make sense to look at /u/TOModera's inventory as I imagine that would look like a library :)
Thus I just shoot from the hips and say this is GlenDronach (given the distilleries recent popularity) and either a Single Cask or a small batch (I think of PX and Olorosso casks...) release

So, /u/TOModera how far off am I? 



Benrinnes A.D. Rattray 14. 

You are correct on the Sherry. And it's quite the beast. Very tasty.



Well, that was kind of hard to miss :)

:/

But very tasty indeed!



AD Rattray Benrinnes 14

Strength: 55.2%

Color: A redder brown. 

Nose: Juicy. Wow. Fruit jams. Petite Sirah wine. Red berries. Strawberry shortcake. 

Palate: Oily and velvety, coating my mouth. Huge juicy fruit and wine flavors. Chocolate-covered a?ai berries and spice. Sweetened cranberries. Pomegranate juice. The palate combines the best of sherried scotch and big juicy red wines. 

Finish: Big chocolate and oak flavors come to the forefront in the finish, with raisins and dried spices. Cinnamon graham crackers. It doesn't last forever, but it hangs out long enough to be quite satisfying. 

Summary: After trying only a small sip in my blind tasting before, I've been super hesitant to pour this dram, because I've only got one sample and Binny's is all sold out of the bottles. If Benrinnes 23 is seriously a cut above this, I have to seriously consider making a large purchase from Master of Malt before that's gone too. 

Score: 97/100 

Macallan Cask Strength has been dethroned. I'd really like to get a bottle of this one. Maybe I'll spring for another Benrinnes. Thanks for reading, and here are my blind tasting results. 

Scotch Reviews #40 & 41

Whisky Reviews #63 & 64

@review_bot



texacer Mystery Dram #3
???, 1oz sample from /u/texacer

Benrinnes 14 AD Rattray
Speyside, 55.2% ABV, NCF, NCA

Nose: Benrinnes 14 Lady of the Glen, no question. What's that mean? It means: cognac, rich fruits, sweet malt, cloves and allspice. It means candied red apples and honey. It means deliciousness.

Taste: Thick, syrupy. Sweet fruity sherry. Cognac. Oak and honey. Sweet toffee. Demerara sugar. Coconut milk. Cloudberry jam.

Finish: Long and delicious. Toasted oak and honey. Caramellized apples. Spicy cinnamon and cloves. Brown syrup. 

Summary: I'd long suspected that the Benrinnes 14 from Lady of the Glen was actually the same cask as the Master of Malt Single Cask Benrinnes 14 I own. I thought this because it was a curiously small bottling (only 86 bottles!), and the Master of Malt bottling wasn't huge either (~350?). That, and there suddenly being two independent bottlings of 14-year-old Benrinnes from first fill sherry casks on the market where previously there were none made me suspicious. This confirms it beyond a shadow of a doubt.

That said, this is one of the most unique, distinctive and gorgeous whiskies on the market. The nose on it is like nothing I've ever tried, and it's just so well-integrated, balanced and all-around fantastic that when I first popped my bottle, I instantly went back online to buy 3 more. Alas, they were then sold out. This means that I can once again stock up on this absolutely monumental whisky, and I absolutely will.

So that's my review - the notes above are perfunctory, because after the first whiff I stopped caring, because I knew what it was. Last time I rated this in the high 80's, and that was underselling it. This is one of the best whiskies I've ever tried.

Score: 95/100
Perfection.

Buy Again? Literally doing it right now.


I?m sure we have all been at a point in our lives where we realize what a difference a year can make. Can that same sentiment hold true for a heavily sherried IB of Benrinnes? 

To give a little context to this comparative review, one of my first swaps on Rediit was for a sample of A.D. Rattray Benrinnes 14, I enjoyed it so much that I sought out multiple other Benrinnes offerings, and Benrinnes 23 is so far the best whiskey I have tasted. 

As chance would have it, A.D. Rattray Benrinnes 13 became available, and I jumped at the chance to buy it. For better or worse, I also had a sample of A.D Rattray Benrinnes 14 waiting to be opened. This seemed like a unique chance to try to very similar drams. Honestly, going into this I am reasonably sure I will not be able to differentiate the two. 

So, let us see what difference one year makes. 

The Specs: 

A.D. Rattray Benrinnes 13 year, 56.8%, sherry butt  

A.D. Rattray Benrinnes 14 year,  details hopefully coming from /u/Letthereber0ck 

I have a confession to make. After trying these side-by-side, I am unsure I can really offer up a proper comparison. They are nearly identical, the difference fleeting and minute.  

In a word, FuckingExcellentIfYouLikeSherry. 

Palate cleansing made no difference, my mouth is coated in delicious sherry flavors. Blind I would not be able to differentiate between the two. My nose is filled with bold, powerful aromas of raisins, red fruits and sherry. Dates and vanilla. The oily texture of both has coated my mouth for the past hour as I tried to pick them apart. Intense sherry, wine and dark chocolate. Red fruits dance in my mouth. The finishes are both excellent, oak, red fruits and chocolate. There is perhaps a little more oak in the 14, but it is a photo finish. Maybe a little more cherry in the 13 vs. 14. 

Rating: Drink this, yes you, drink this. 14 Year 92.5 - 13 Year 92 

Summary: A.D.Rattray knows how to pick sherried Benrinnes casks, and we should be thankful for that. These remind me of Kavalan Solist Sherry Cask, but better. 

Everyday or epic? Cosmic or mundane? A.D. Rattray?s Benrinnes are both ? a perpetual delight, but also a system of which other sherried scotches should be measured; a yardstick, but also a diary of delights; flavors, but also experiences. It?s that indeterminacy, that constant oscillation between the quotidian and the universal, that gives these reticent whiskies such force. A.D. Rattray Benrinnes is part of the reason why I grew to love this community, and it continues to illustrate why I love whiskey. 



Sadly I cannot be too much help, since this was shipped from another province in Canada. But from the bottle it was distilled 02.09.1998 and bottled 30.05.2012. It was picked up two weeks ago in stores. When I saw it listed for $59 USD, I could not resist. I'm betting this bottle sat on the shelf for a long time. 

Hell, I should probably also get 50 more. To call this a great value would be an understatement. 



The 14 is 55.2%, not sure about the cask number since I'm not at home and didn't include it my review. 

The nose on it is so crazy juicy! I can reliably pick it out in blind Sherry bomb tastings by the nose alone. My Benrinnes 23 and GlenDronach 17 PX are the only other whiskies that I like as much as that one. 



Hello Scotchit... uh Texacer here.. with another quick review, no big deal don't even bother reading!  but if you do, hooray for Independent Bottlers!  some do sherry right and I believe AD Rattray does so heres Benrinnes 14 year old  AD Rattray Sherry Cask 55.2% abv

yum... oh goodness.  its just.. nevermind.. moving on

96/100



Thanks to /u/TOModera for the sample (hence the picture). So, I think everyone here knows Benrinnes, so let's get on with it.

55.2% abv.

Nose - Liquorice, dark dried fruit, cheap Christmas fruitcake, gingerbread, praline pecans, clove, white pepper, hoisin sauce, 5-spice powder. Interesting ? dry, fruity, and savory.

Taste - Liquorice and dark dried fruit again, getting fruitier and a bit of a blood orangey citrus note on the development with some clove, white pepper, hoisin, and anise. Reminds me of the sauce that came from a pork belly recipe I made that had ginger, honey, white pepper, star anise,  soy sauce, and caramelized onion in it. Rich and meaty in a Mortlach kind of way.

Finish - 5-spice, black pepper, honey, and hoisin sauce again. Not as big as I expected.

So this is my first heavily sherried Benrinnes, and it did not disappoint. I really wish I could get a whole bottle of this, but I guess the sample will suffice. This is rich, meaty, savory, and unique in that it?s bringing a lot of ?dark? Asian flavors to mind, which hasn?t happened to me with a Scotch before?if only there was more out there like it.

94/100



Benrinnes is really good. Cask strength Benrinnes is fantastic. Cash strength sherried Benrinnes is simply divine. 

Thanks for the review!



So I've had these samples for a while and tasted the 13 at Devoz's house a while ago too... i think i was reticent to open them up and do reviews because they intimidated me.  Never had any other Benrinnes but hear some decent things from you guys.. or was it that i wouldn't like them? either way, here's a quick little series of them. 

this first one in a crazy looking bottle was one of /u/Devoz where a cork broke and he had to pour his Benrinnes 13 into another bottle. this was tasted after a number of other drams so notes are sparse. 

Nose: very rich sherry nose. Tons of fruit, spicy. 

Taste: doesn't taste cask strength. Candy-like. All-spice and pepper. Cherries. Very sweet. 

Finish: sweet fruity. Long.

Score: 83/100

I like it but it's a bit too sweet for me.

I received this a couple years ago from /u/Tomodera in a secret santa swap. the 14yr from AD Rattray is Cask strength, and heavily sherried.  it's the 1998-2012 bottling from cask 6864. 

Appearance: dark orange, thick as hell on the glass

Nose: this doesn't smell like whisky, it smells like sherry? damn. So much fruit, grapes, dried apricots, raisins, caramel, honey. Bit of oak. 

Taste: so. Much. Fruit. Raspberries, cherries, apples, apricots, peaches. Tons of sherry. Honey. Super sweet. Some spiciness. Seriously doesn't really taste like a whisky. 

Finish: long, malty, sweet. 

Score: 87/100

I like this a lot, but like the 13, it's so sweet that it's not one I'd rate over 90. 

/u/Kinohead sent me this in a swap quite a while ago, and again, I hadn't gotten to it yet. sorry for the wait dude.

Appearance: "one of these things is not like the other" ? what a difference! This is aged in hogsheads according to whiskybase. Doesn't look like a sherried dram based on colour. 

Nose: apples, bourbon cask-ish, pears, honey, lemons, floral. Smells a bit like some Shochu I've had. 

Taste: definitely no sherry as far as I can tell. Light fruit, apples, pears, peaches. Some citrus. Honey, marmalade. Quite malty. Lots of oak spice, vanilla. For something watered down to 43, it has a ton of flavour. 

Finish: long, sweet, malty. 

Score: 85/100

this is really nice, but is a bit too standard Speyside to stand out from the pack. 

this sample was a gift from /u/Devoz, and what a fucking gift! It's an OB from 1985, aged entirely in sherry and bottled at 58.8% ABV. I can't even. 

Appearance: even darker than the 14, more red than orange, with equally thick legs. 

Nose: mellower than the 14 with a lot more oak and less sherry-esque. Lots of fruit, strawberries, other berries, honey, cherry cheesecake. 

Taste: wow. That?s quite the dram. Big sherry taste, cherries, berries and more red fruit. Lots of spicy oak, cinnamon, vanilla. Hotter than I expected after 23 years and based on the nose. Sweet but not over-powering. Seems like a different type of sherry than the 14. I added a few drops of water to the last little bit just to see how it opens up. Takes on a more leathery, earthy quality with some added spiciness. the wood is more pronounced too. damn... i daresay a few drops actually improves this and deepens the complexity. 

Finish: long, sweet, woody. 

Score: 93/100

this is one of the nicest sherried drams I've ever had. I tend to prefer peat to sherry, but the sherry here wasn't so sweet to overpower the malt. This ties with some of my highest rated peated malts, and is the highest score I've given to  a Speyside too.  If only sherried 23 year old drams were more readily accessible? guess I'll have to wait for the market to crash. well done Benrinnes. 

so good stuff! I didn't give some of these high 90s like some here, but that's probably just my anti-sweet tooth talking. very nice drams, and if i could afford it, I'd drink some of that 23yr every day. 



Benrinnes 14 1998 A.D. Rattray

Thanks to my parents for picking this up for me in the US where I legally ordered it to their summer vacation house.

So here's another one recommended/not recommended by /u/texacer. I believe he once teased me about drinking "bad drams" while I had this around.

This has been something of a weekly dram for me. It's really tasty. And seems to evaporate quite quickly.

In theory, it should be the same as the Lady of the Glen. Yet it's a different Abv. And potentially a different butt. So let's see the differences, shall we?

Price: N/A in Ontario

Cask Number: 6864

Number of Bottles: 449

Date Distilled: 02.09.1998

Date Bottled: 21.09.2012

Cask Type: Sherry Butt

Region: Speyside

Abv: 55.2%

Colour: 5YR 4/8

Nose: Ginger, juniper, apple, cassia buds, mint, mango, vanilla custard

Wow. Starts out different than what I was expecting. No red fruits, rather a gin/spice mix and a lot of apple. Big vanilla notes as well.

Taste: Peach, cinnamon, apple, strawberry, ham, lemongrass, honey

Now we have some fruit! It's like walking down Church and Jarvis up in here! In a great way!

In addition to the big fruit flavours, there's some unique Indian and Easter notes here. Really tasty. Not as big as the Lady of the Glen though.

Finish: Cocoa, ginger, pepper, eucalyptus, floral, pineapple, pear upside down cake, lemon

This finish is longer, and I'd say more Benrinnes than the one before it. More floral/mint/pepper notes, and the lemon that I'm used to is back.

Conclusion: What I'll say is this: The Lady of the Glen did the whole Big Sherry Bomb thing better. This is still tasty, yet it doesn't go to that big sherry place. And while it's pretty amazing, it doesn't pass my bullshit test of setting off memories.

It's still amazing though. And able to be found, since there's 373 more bottles of this than there are of the Lady of the Glen. It's a different sherry experience, really, and you'd do a lot worse ordering other whiskies.

85/100



