Hello Scotchit!

Where Scotchit is very good at pinpointing favourites (Lagavulin, Balvenie, Aberlour?), you?re also not exactly subtle when it comes to voicing distaste, and it seems that aside from Johnnie Walker and Dalmore, Bowmore seems to be the one taking most of the heat. Alas, although not one of my favourites, I have no problem admitting that I find most Bowmores to be a damn good dram, deserving their rightful place amongst any peated whisky connoisseur?s shelves.  Here?s one of my favourites, a cask strength sherry matured beast which has become rather hard to find these days.

Colour: Blood Orange

Nose:  Dark Chocolate, mocha, hazelnuts, soft sweet peat, strawberries and sea salt (not brine).

Palate: Gooseberries, strawberries, oranges, cinder toffee, bonfire smoke, sweet peat, leather, black pepper and cinnamon.

Finish: Stewed fruits, prunes, cranberry juice, salted caramels, bitter black tea, black pepper and sweet smoke,

A really superb, complex Islay. I?d certainly recommend a small amount of water as to really bring out the complexities on the palate, otherwise the smoke, peat and black pepper really override the more subtle fruit notes. This is my second favourite sherried Islay in the shadow of the all impressive Oogie. The Uigeadail, although similarly complex, poses a fantastic oily quality that the Laimrig unfortunately lacks. Regardless an impressive dram that should be on the buy list of a certain moderator?86/100 



Sounds exactly like a Whisky Castle IB I had a sample of a while ago. One of the best drams I've ever had.

The Devil's Cask is really excellent too.



I like Bowmore.  I tried the standard 12 year at a bar recently and it was perfectly good to me. I mean it follows along with other distilleries' standard bottles that are released at 40-43%, but I saw nothing wrong with it really.

I'm thinking of picking up the Legend and new Small Batch just for the sake of science.



I can tell you exactly why there is no bottle number on the front. The Laimrig used to be travel retail exclusive, where each bottle was numbered, approximately 18,000 of them. Now however, it's been re-released non TR exclusive and the new look bottles (and tubes) are no longer numbered.

The Abv. is also different.



Review #16 - Bowmore Laimrig IV 15 Years Old

?

Up until this point, I have not been a fan of Bowmore and in fact, I was a proud card-carrying member of the Bowmore Bashing Bandwagon.  After I had my first taste of Scotch about a year and a half ago (Lagavulin, go figure) I wanted to expand my horizons so I bought a Bowmore Core Range Taster Pack.  It consisted of the 12, 15 Darkest, and 18.  Suffice it to say, I did not like Bowmore?s brand of medicinal peat.  Luckily though, I knew that I could enjoy Scotch from Islay and plowed on, unlike the unfortunate redditors I?ve read on this very sub where a taste of Bowmore set them back, years in come cases, from touching Scotch again.  This one however, is making the case for Bowmore.  I have a bottle of the Devil?s Cask Batch 3 and a sample of Batch 1 that is on my drinking list.  

Rested 10 minutes ? Glencairn with a bit of water

?

Price: $119.95 at the LCBO

Region: Islay

Abv: 54.1%

Colour: fairly steeped tea

?

Nose: Smoke and green wood.  I think I would say this is a bit medicinal, but not overpowering.  Black forest cake and cherry syrup. Basically what you would imagine if you could liquify a black forest cake.  After a little time the chocolate shavings of the cake are really coming through. Vanilla and some oak (presumably from the ex-bourbon barrels).

Taste: Delicate cherry syrup, some chocolate and a medicinal note which is reminiscent of cough syrup.  Not getting any smoke on the palate.

Finish: There?s the smoke as well as some oak.  Fairly long, and when the smoke fades, the cherry comes through.  Some new leather, and a hint of pipe tobacco.

?

Conclusion: Bowmore should just bottle these as their core line-up.  I never reviewed that Core Range Taster, but I have no doubt in my mind that they would be the lowest scores I would have given by far.  This is not super complex.  You?ve got the nice cherry and other black forest notes, combined with some smoke and peat on the nose and finish.  It?s a very nice balance/juxtaposition between the smoke and sweet and this dram leans more towards an everyday drinker.  There is real quality here and it?s a shame that this is not the experience most will have when drinking Bowmore.  Looking forward to the Devil?s Casks which are aged exclusively in ex-sherry barrels.   I do think that the fact this is only finished in sherry does hurt it a bit, and given a choice I?d probably take your standard sherry bomb (think A?bunadh/105) over this, but it is a very solid dram.

Score

85/100



Yea I really want to try the 23y Portwood!

For me I'd say the black forrest cake was most dominant and I don't think I got strawberry notes - maybe some citrus zest though



Bowmore Laimrig 15 Years Old Batch 3

53.7 % ABV, Bottle 03233 of 18000

This is a special little number Bowmore have started putting out every year. Sherry matured, bottled at cask strength and non chill-filtered. I've heard it's basically a cask strength version of the 15 Year Darkest, although I haven't tried the Darkest so I can't comment on that. This is the 3rd Batch apparently, I also had a bottle of last year's Batch 2 which I came to enjoy greatly, hence my natural acquisition of this year's bottling! On to the tasting!

Nose: Smoked prunes, a hint of vanilla. Fresh red apples, some rich leather, smoked oak chips, applewood. Maybe even a pinch of sea salt.
After water: More sweet woodsmoke, but also a hint more dry sea salt. Redcurrant jelly, sweet oaky vanilla and light spice. Carbolic peatsmoke. 

Palate: Redcurrants, smoked Chinese plum (??), thick woodsmoke, dark chocolate and cranberries. Drying out with a tanned leather note later on. 
After water: Sweet berry fruits, a hint of sharp saltiness which then gives way to chocolate and sweet aromatic woodsmoke.

Finish: Fruity smoke, plum, blackcurrant, redcurrant, all over a dry twig bonfire! A hint of PX sherry? Some crunchy caramel after a while.

Overall: This was a solid dram, but I didn't find it living up to my memory of last year's batch. It has the classic Bowmore woodsmoke mixed with a rich sherry fruitiness, but it manages to stay quite dry all the way through. The salty note surprised me, as I don't usually get that in Bowmore. Definitely worth a look if you're into Bowmore or sherried Islay malts. A very rich and full-bodied dram for sure. 

I reckon a B, purely because I'd rather have another bottle of last year's! (actually I split this bottle with a malt-mate, so I think it worked out well in the end :P)



Legend, Darkest, 12, 25 signatory.  They all just have terrible treacle and artificial tastes that dont agree with me.  Mothballs, plastic, bad aftertastes. 

review of Darkest



Where is the review... this is a picture. 

I had some of the Bowmore Legend last night. It was very peaty and sweet. 



Oh man... that sounds amazing! Thanks for the recommendation.  I am a little worried that their splash page on their website has a bunch of butt plugs... but who am I to judge.

http://www.auchentoshan.com/age-check.aspx



Bottle #838 of 18,000

Islay, sherry finished

53.7% (cask strength), ncf

Tasted neat in a tulip glass at my usual bar. 

Color: Fairly dark, like buckwheat honey or dark amber maple syrup. I assume it?s colored because I can?t find anything that says it?s not. 

Nose: Light smoke, chocolate malt, stewed fruit. After some rest and a little water, some cinnamon and pecan pie-like notes emerge. 

Palate: A hit of pepper, malt with cocoa notes, dark plum with cloves, then the smoke hits but doesn't overpower. There's a little savory flavor, black tea, and wood. A touch of sweetness helps balance the savory and spice flavors. Really nice. 

Long finish. Very tannic. The smoke dominates, backed with cocoa and stewed plums again. Spicy. Strong burn which needs some water for me. After resting with water, spice and buttery pie crust notes come out as the smoke dissipates. Nutty flavors follow. Water makes a big difference, for the better in my opinion. 

Needs a little time to rest but then has some great flavors. I don?t think I?ve ever had something that changed as much over the course of drinking it. A little sweet to balance the smoke, nice smoke and buttery, nutty notes. Hits the spot for me and if you like sherry with your peat this is a very good choice. Not sure how widely available it is, but very tasty if you can find it. The price might be a bit much though. 

88/100


Bowmore Laimrig 15yr.

54.4% ABV - Non Chill Filtered

Nose: This was a nose which held a couple of surprises.  Immediately, my nose was met with aromas that I have only ever found on sherried whiskies 20+ years or older.  Worn leather, along with leather polish, dark tea with plenty of wood tannins.  They were so prevalent, that the peat was almost undetectable on the nose.  As I spent more time nosing it, I began to find notes of furniture polish, cocoa and toffee.  An interesting nose indeed.

Taste: The arrival contains some immediate heat, then  the sherry cask influence begins to take hold.  Raisins, sultanas and salted chocolate, they are all there.  They all seem to be playing around a coastal salt and brine base. Still more oak and wood tannins.  The peat smoke seems to be content to be held in check, delicate enough that it almost seems an afterthought.

Finish: The finish is long and promptly turns bitter with the help of that briny sea-salt and some mild peppery undertones.  The savory dried fruits continue to stick around help make a finish that is bitter-sweet.  The cask strength ABV helps lift the finish into lingering longer than perhaps it would without it.

The nose on this whisky really surprised and intrigued me.  It showed much more maturity than I have experienced with a 15 year old whisky.  This may be due to the presence of much older whisky in the expression, and / or some top notch sherry casks which have really helped mature it beyond its years.  There wasn't however, a great deal of complexity to it, but it was high quality to be sure.

89/100




Bowmore 15 Laimrig

Colour: Rusty brown amber.

Nose: Surprisingly malty for a 15 year old, the smoke and peat is balanced with pleasant dark chocolate notes, dark cherries, figs, strawberry jam, and sherry.  Interesting yet subtle green apple, cayenne, and over ripe pears hide behind the richer elements.

Palate:  Cinnamon, clove, coriander, mint, honey, bourbon, grapes, coco powder.  The peat and smoke arrive strongly at the end of the palate and beautifully transition into the finish.

Finish: The peat and smoke dominate the finish, I also get anise, grape juice, earth, black pepper, sea salt, and ash.  

A peated 15 year Islay with a sherry finish bottled at 54.1% sounds very promising.  Does it deliver?  Mostly.  

Surprisingly dry, spicy, and chocolatey, the sherry component is very present and generally represents what I like in sherry cask maturation.  You can?t miss it?s influence here.  That said, I?m greedy and I want more.  There have been some amazing mixes of peat and sherry or port?  The BenRiach 12 Heredotus Fumosus, Longrow Red Port Matured, and Bowmore?s own Devil?s Cask series are some top of the line offerings in this regard.  I think if this whisky could have spent a little more time in the sherry casks, it would be on par with those.

As an experiment, I tried adding 2 drops of PX sherry to a dram of this.  It certainly created some conflicting acidic and winey elements but loosely confirmed the pleasantness of a stronger sherry influence. 

88/100.  The second highest score I?ve given a Bowmore.




Nice review! Can relate. For me the Laimrig is one my favorite standard expressions. Personality I rank it higher than all of the devil's casks.

Btw I guess it's batch 4 you reviewed here?



Bowmore Laimrig 15 Batch IV

(15y, 54.1%, finished in Spanish sherry butts)

?

The fourth batch of the Bowmore Laimrig expression, this is a sherry finished 15 year old cask strength offering. 

Thanks to u/DistillAsian for volunteering to be the guinea pig in buying a bottle and providing this sample!

?

Nose: Raisins, fudge, smoke, grass, cherry, strawberry

Taste: Oak, salt, cinnamon, clove, Black Forest cake (dark chocolate + cherry), hint of rubber

Finish: Cayenne pepper, anise, dirt, salt

?

Big sherry influence, surprisingly so considering this is just a sherry finish. A combination of smoke, spice and rich (dare I say it) dark sweets. Tasty stuff. Long, drying with earthy/vegetal notes dominating the finish.

Bowmore expressions are very hit or miss for me, so much so that they are definitely a try before I buy whenever possible. Bad Bowmore's have traditionally been very watery, thin on flavours and loaded with heavy-handed floral notes (read: FWP). This is the opposite of that... a solid "B" whisky in my books. Quite nice for a fairly standard "limited" release, I wouldn't mind a bottle of this once in awhile.

?

85/100



Hi Scotchit! I bet you heard Bowmore is one of the oldest distilleries in Scotland. Well, I don't want to argue about that. But did you know that near Bowmore distillery, a flint arrowhead was found dated from 10,500 BC, which makes it the earliest evidence of human presence found so far in Scotland.

Bowmore 15 Laimrig

Islay, 54.1%

color: auburn

nose: Sherry, hazelnuts, dates, cinnamon, peat smoke, mocha, dark chocolate, fresh ginger

taste: ashy smoke, Sherry, cinnamon, malted chocolate, cola, hazelnuts

finish: lingering

A Sherry bomb with smoke and not vice versa. The smoke is nicely integrated in dark Sherry notes. I'm not a fan of the Bowmore smoke, good it's not overpowering. This is quite good.

84/100



Did a swap with a friend a while back, and got some lovely drams. Cracked this one open tonight. Bowmore has always been Meh whisky for me, I won't buy a bottle, but I'll gladly drink some if I'm given a dram. Interesting to try one of their special editions.

Aged 15 Years, First fill bourbon for 14 years and one year in Olrosso casks. 53.7%ABV

Nose: Sherry notes, actual sherry, not just the traces of it. Ash. Mineral oil. Raspberry drink powder. Salty toffee. Vanilla. Brushed leather. Ruby grapefruit. Smoked meat glazed with red fruit jelly. Amaretto.

Palate: Ashy. Sherry wood. Salt. Dark red fruits. Cherry cigarellos. With water the sherry notes become more prominent and slightly sweeter, develops more of a citrus profile. 

Finish: Long. Dark red fruits. Rich Tobacco. Hints of salt and woodspice. 

Rating: 8/10

Sweet sherry done right. This was wonderfully complex with the layers of peat, bourbon and sherry mixing to create some interesting notes. 



Went out to a fun, tasty, great dinner party last night. And as I was the DD, yet I was able to have one, given the amount of time between driving and drinking, I could have one.

The host's eyes lit up. He had something to show me.

Something he had found, that he doesn't really remember where it came from.

And it was... Bowmore Laimrig 15 year. And... I didn't know how to react.

However I'm a little bit better than your average seal. Or penguin. I can't really keep up.

Yes, I haven't been the nicest friend to Bowmore. I may have called them poopy at some point. However I've also heard (and tried) some special editions that didn't taste so bad.

And this was an adventure, after all. A free, nice host offering me something he enjoyed and really wanted me to try (and review).

So here we are. This is a Spanish sherry butt finished, cask strength 15 year old Bowmore. And the name means pier, in Scots Gaelic.

Well, at least that's what they tell me. For all I know it means "Mushroom batter" in Gaelic, I don't speak it.

Let's see how it measures up.

Price: $100.05 (CAD) at the LCBO

Region: Islay

Abv: 53.7%

Colour: Red Brass

Nose: Red licorice, cherries, peat, apple, fresh grass, tart, orange

Not at all what I was expecting. Thinking back to past Bowmore's, they started out strong in the nose and then eventually left a few minutes later, leaving me naked, crying, and hugging my teddy bear.

Just kidding, I don't have a teddy bear.

And this one actually gradually dies down, yet there's a solid tart, orange, smoke, and herbal flavour to it. Nice surprise so far.

Taste: Strawberry, peat, burn, oak, salty, currant

Burns at first, however given some time, it stays in a nicely red fruit flavoured and salty taste. Not as much peat as I'd personally like, however I think that's more a personal thing.

What I will say is the this isn't that complex. Peat, Sherry. That's it. Like Good Italian Cooking: Few Ingredients. In this case, kinda a detriment, however not a deal breaker.

Finish: Anise, smoke, oregano, dry sand, zucchinis, cinnamon

Long finish on this one, lasts quite awhile. Which is what I meant when I wrote long.

Shit, late nights + writing reviews = my A game.

There's quite a bit of spice at the end on this one, and some earth/vegetal notes that came out of nowhere. It's nice, I enjoy this one.

Conclusion: The extra alcohol makes this more than just a Bowmore. My old issue with Bowmore was the single notes, the fading flavour, and generally just being "meh".

This one has the flavour, which don't cut and run as quickly, has some interesting dynamics with Sherry and Peat, and a nice finish. It still isn't that complex, it still fades out after a bit. However it doesn't have horrible off notes, it is nice to sip, and given a better price point, I'd actually buy a bottle.

My score represents the bottle without price, and I'm glad my friend was happy to share this one, as it was a nice experience.

80/100

Scotch review #189, Islay review #46

Other Bowmore Reviews:

Bowmore 12

Bowmore 15 Darkest

Bowmore 18
