What better for my 18th review than an 18-year-old whisky? So we have the 18 expression from Bowmore.

Islay, 43%, would cost me around $120 for a bottle

Not my pic, tasted in a copita glass at a bar

Nose: Leather, malt, touch of solvent but not in a bad way. Figs, smoke.

Palate: Pecan pie, moderate peat smoke, toffee, dried fruit, an unusual hint of raspberry chocolate ganache and a floral note. Light mouthfeel and rather sweet. Interesting stuff going on here. 

Finish: Dry and tannic, smoke, malt, leathery oak, sugared plums 

Conclusion: Tastes very good. Unfortunately, it comes up short in the mouthfeel, where it feels rather watery. I bet an IB bottled at a higher proof would really be something. This ends up hinting at how good it could be, but finally falls a little short. I thought the Laimrig bottled at cask strength was better. 

Buy a bottle? It's got some things going for it, but probably not. 

84/100



Color: Mahogany (Contains added Caramel for coloring)

Nose: Delicate. Peat and Leather. Dried Fruits like Plums but there?s Lemon as well. Hints of Salt and Smoke.
After a while some Malt, Heather and Butter are coming through. And all the time there?s a faint Sherry like sweetness. The nose of the 12 Year Enigma is quite overwhelming but the 18 year is much more settled and ripe. Hardly any Wood which is remarkable for its age. Quite Nice.

Taste: The delivery is very smooth and slightly watery for a 43%. I think this expression should be bottled at 46%. Chocolate, Plums, Nuts. Sherried Peat Smoke in the background. Again hardly any Wood and very little Spices. The Peat is still there. Light Ashes. Well balanced.

Finish: Some Toffee is there, as well as slightly bitter Orange Marmalade. Some Wet Earth after a few minutes. After about 10 minutes it felt like having eaten a thin slice of Smoked Ham. I?ve added half a point to the finish for that. Remarkable!  

Rating:  87,5 (out of a 100)
Nose 23 - Taste 22 ? Finish 21  ? Overall 21,5

General Remarks: Bowmore is owned by Suntory Ltd from Japan, This company also owns Auchentoshan in the Lowlands and GlenGarioch in the Highlands.
The Single Malts from Islay are dried with Peat. Peat is a partially carbonized substance that consists of i.e. grasses, moss, heather, pine needles and seaweed. The Bowmore 18 ages in Oak casks and is not Sherry-finished as far as I know but there's this hint of Sherried sweetness that combines so well with the other flavors. Quite interesting!

I added a teaspoon of water that brought more Peat, dried fruits (Plums and Lime) and Malt to the nose and Toffee or Butterscotch to the palate. I prefer it neat but you can certainly add a bit of water to this spirit.

Drinking Experience Neat: Very Good

Conclusion: The 12 year Enigma to me was like a cigar-smoking student. Rough and full of fun. The 18-year is more like a retired London banker having his dram in a leather upholstery chair in his club. I think you get the picture. Both are very good Single Malts and they both have the peaty light smoke distillery character from Bowmore. I have a light preference for the student. But it?s a close finish!



hey I don't yell at you for being stupid about Bunnahabhain, which is far superior than any bowmore i've had.  you said yourself that theres a lot coming out of bowmore that sucks.  stop defending them for some reason.  

if a whisky brand's ground level malt is undrinkable, I lose respect for them.  



REVIEW #41: Bowmore 18 year - 43% abv 

Nose: Sweet, floral, caramel, sweet smelling floor wax, light sweet soft smoke

Taste: sweet, nuts, dry peat, citrus, raisins, touch of mint, brine

Finish: hot, spicy, peat, cayenne pepper

Score: 87/100

Buy a full bottle? Perhaps

Closing Thoughts: It was good.  But it?s a soft, smooth, quiet, sophisticated dram compared to the rock concerts I just tasted.  It?s also expensive, which doesn?t help it?s chances any.

Day 5: Bowmore 18
43% ABV

I have only tried Bowmore 10 which was extremely inpalatable, and had to be watered down with some nice Aberlour 12 before I could finish it off slowly.  I'm actually looking forward to trying this one!

Hmm!  I'm OK with this--it's like a beefed up, peatier, smokier version of Oban 14, and has a great finish.  Bowmore, can we be friends now?

Rating: 84/100

30th, 31st, 32nd, 33rd, and 34th reviews



Bowmore 18yr.

43% ABV

Nose: The peat you would expect to be there takes more of a backseat on the nose, it is not a brute like the peat found in Ardbeg or Laphroaig, but more subtle and subdued.  It shares more with the likes of Caol Ila. This helps clear the way for a rich toffee presence as well as dried fruits.  An air of cocoa and raisins envelop a barley note, making it seem sweet and fruity.  A small dollop of molasses resides within as well.

Taste: The taste follows the nose closely, the peat is definitely there, but it plays nicely with the toffee and sherry notes.  The extra age has softened this whisky somewhat compared to the 12 yr.  The arrival is bitter-sweet with notes of sea salt, raisins and figs.  There is still cocoa present, but on the palate it is now just a very light dusting.  New to the experience are some flashes of honey.  The malt holds its own and has not completely abandoned ship.

Finish: The finish is long and sweet.  The peat intensifies slightly and brings with it some mildly bitter oak.  There is not much else going on here, other than more sherry, smoke and malt.

Another good balance of Islay peat and sweeter fruity notes.  Not overly complex, and somewhat "flat".  This could most certainly improve with a more natural presentation.

88/100

Bowmore is a good place to start for those wanting to dip their toes in the world of Islay whisky.  The peat is more understated and the prices are generally lower than most other Islay drams.  The biggest drawback to Bowmore in my opinion, is the lack of natural presentation in the core range.  Beefing up the ABV and providing non chill filtration would help increase the overall complexity and enjoyment of the experience.  The Laimrig 15yr. most definitely benefits from cask strength and NCF.  The whisky has a much better "mouthfeel" and flavor profile.



Colour: DARK caramel and woody.  

Nose: Syrup, smoke, peat, heather, leather, cider, grape juice, caramel candy.

Palate: Corn syrup, honey, apples, wine, smoke, peat, cherries, wood, sugar, liquorice, chocolate, fall fruits, cinnamon, brown sugar.

Finish: Nuts, brown sugar, peat, wood, christmas cake, ginger, nutmeg.

Much nicer than the Bowmore 12 (and 15, to my recollection).  This is a good standard Islay, but at 18 years old, one might expect a stronger offering.  This is very sweet, too much so.  Doesn't feel like a summer dram at all.  I picture winter, not fall, and a roaring fireplace.  Water doesn't hurt and really brings out some nice caramel scents in the nose.

43% abv really packs a punch which is nice.

Bowmore, you've done well here.  I promise I won't be so kind with my review of the 12!

Given that Islay scotches seem so popular these days, I wonder if Bowmore will continue to pump out their staples or maybe try something new and perhaps catch more attention.  There's potential here.

An interesting side note: I have a 10 year old Dun Bheagan Islay that I really like and I've been trying to find out which distillery it comes from.  Strangely the Bowmore 18 seems to share some of the flavour profile despite the age difference.  I also get a pinch of Laphroaig hospital leavings with the Dun Bheagan.  Anyone know the scoop?

If I was next to a roaring fireplace in at a cottage in the middle of the winter as a blizzard raged outside: 86/100



I think if your entry-level offering isn't up to snuff, I don't know why you're offering it. If your 12 tastes like ass but your 18 tastes great, don't make a 12. 

Bowmore really has shot themselves in the foot by selling themselves as the bargain bin Islay. Not just their pricing, but also their unashamed use of poor presentation (chill-filtered, 40% ABV, caramel up the wazoo) has done more harm to their reputation than any number of bad reviews could. 



Monday greetings Scotchit! I dared to try another Bowmore, and this is how it went:

Bowmore 18

Islay, 43%

color: auburn

nose: toffee, candied fruits, marzipan, less smoke than the younger Bowmores

taste: first: burn like acid, bitter, air freshener, later: floral, spices

finish: cold ash, metallic

If you want to know why a lot of people in here dislike Bowmore, try this. Ok, the nose is quite promising, but the taste is very disappointing. I couldn't even finish my dram. Glad I didn't buy a full bottle.

The 17 yo was pretty nice, it's sad they've replaced it by this one.

56/100



Hmm..

I too loved the 17 and miss it already. 



I know, I know. I said over a few days.

Well, I think it makes sense for these three to be together.

I tried this at Bristol Whisky Lounge last year and found it to be immeasurably disappointing. Classic OB Bowmore...

Bowmore 18 43%

Colour: E150

Body: Medium

Nose: Very fruity, sweet, sherry, spice, sour stone fruit, raisin, plum, slight malty smoke.

Taste: Silky and smooth but not very full. Sweet sherry, raisin, plum, going sour with more plum and some spice. Malty peat smoke.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Disappointing on dark chocolate.

Well, not great Bowmore. This would cost you about ?95 and I'd rather have a tonne of other whiskies at this price range. Or just a tonne of whiskies. That sounds pretty good.

73/100



Network Average: 76.1

Best Score: 91

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



Bowmore 18

Abv: 43%

Price: $126.95 (CAD) for a 750ml

Region: Islay

Colour: Light stained oak

Nose: Passion fruit, mint, perfume, smokes, salt air, grape drink, butter

This has improved quite a bit. This is quite unique. I'm quite happy with the 18, it looks like it'll make up for some concerns in the 12 and 15.

Taste: Wood, pencil shavings, banana, taro, peat, brown sugar, heat, peanuts, raspberry, vanilla, corn

Or... not. It's hard to explain what I don't like about this. It reminds me of a younger Bourbon, which isn't to say I'm bashing on Bourbon, it's to say that after 18 years int he cask, I expected something a little... different than a young Bourbon. Very woody and vegetal.

Finish: Lots of oak, cassia buds, mushroom, bay leaf, medicine

It always saddens me to ready about an 18 year whisky with 43% Abv. The finish was short and woody. Kinda a let down from a great nose. Heck, the taste seems better now compared to the finish. 

Conclusion: This one should be an easy 83+. I mean, it's 18 years, it has a great nose, and then... blah. It's not horrible like the 12, or missing some key aspects like the 15. Heck, it's more consistent than either of them. But... come on, a short finish full of oak? Or a young Bourbon flavour (with some peat)? Needs more time.

79/100

Oh well, guess I'll have to snag a sample of the 25 to keep looking.



I have never met a bowmore that I liked. I stay away from the stuff.  

Bowmore 25 signatory
