So, rockindaddy and I recently did a swap over in /r/scotchswap. In addition to the samples we had agreed to trade me, he also sent me this mysterious looking unmarked bottle. Well, here we go.

Color: Ruby port.

Nose: Dry, strong sherry. Dried fruits. Red wine. Wood sap. Leather. No discernible peat smoke.

Taste: An explosion of fruit flavors; mostly berries I'd say. The flavor becomes more sour and tart as it develops with just a touch of malt coming through. Some pepper and spices.

Finish: Fairly long, with berry and red wine flavors continuing to dominate as the taste fades away.

Overall: This was really interesting, but didn't totally blow me away. I found the fruity taste to be pleasant and well developed, with a full rich flavor. 85 / 100.



Nice review.  Are you ready for the reveal?   

Bruichladdich Black Art 2.



Bruichladdic Black Art 2, 99.4 proof, Distilled 1989

Color - Dark rose gold

Nose - Lots of sherry, raspberry, sweet fruity syrup, cinnamon and brown sugar, malty goodness, light toasty oak

Taste - Dark fruits, spicy, freshly turned fertile soil, just a bit of oak towards the end

Finish - A long fruity and spicy finish that plays both on the tongue and in the throat

Overall:
A familiar nose considering most of the drams I've had so far have been sherried, but while sweet it is sharp and pointed, oddly familiar but still strange - perhaps a bit?esoteric .  There was an interesting misalignment between some tastes and smells that added to the experience of this dark art.  Black Arts 2 was a most enjoyable dram and experience, but, considering the price of the bottle I was expecting a bit more magick from this creation.

88/100



freshly turned fertile soil

I got that as well, in the Finish / Taste. I labeled it 'Earthy Backbone', but upon recollection, thought of mushrooms, and this is pretty much what mushrooms taste like raw... :)



Hello Scotchit.  I have been meaning to get this review of Bruichladdich Black Art 2 done. So, since there are a few coming out recently I thought I would contribute.

Bruichladdich Black Art 2:

Not what I was expecting for something called Black Art.  No Peat anywhere to be found.  This is the 1st sherry I have loved besides Glenfarclas 12.  Very complex and wish I could of spent more time with it.  The sherry goes fantastic with the salt notes.  Price is the downfall...



I think there are plenty of wine casks or at least wine finishing going on as well...

PS - Where you all you guys when I reviewed this a few months ago? Do I smell or something?

;-)



Hey Scotchit!  I have had the good fortune to try this most interesting whisky.  Despite the name and image it is not the scotch I expected it to be.  I suppose the deception behind the name.

Bruichladdich Black Art 2:   49.7% 750 ML, Distilled 1989 Bottled 2010 

Color:  Amber +2 with a Red hue. Clings to the glass nicely with very slow small tears.

Nose:  Carmel, Roses, Cinnamon, Baked Apples, Sherry, Sweet Spice, Red Wine Vinegar, Malt Syrup, Honey, Vanilla, Raisins, Berries, Sear air, Oak, Cardboard, Grass and Floral notes

Mouthfeel:  Lightly Oily and Warm

Taste:  Cinnamon Spice, Bitter Grapes, Ginger, Older Oak, Pepper, Tannins,  Black Pepper, Cranberries, Blackberries, Hint of Fennel Seed

Finish:  Dry, but fairly long, Oak, tart, Pepper, Winey, Toothpaste, Fruit and berries, Pink Grapefruit 

With Water:  Only a couple small drops for me.
Nose:  Cardboard (woody), Oak, Sweet Berries Filter in, Spice is tamed.
Taste:  Minty, Tannins, Grapes, Raisins

Score:  Taste: 74,  Value: 10,  Unique:  4,  Buy Again:  3  Total Score:  91    

This dram reminds me a lot of a Macallan due to the sherry influence, but with a bit more sea air infused into it.  Very complex and a lot of layers with a spicy sherried taste.  The red color visually surprised me a bit.  My only real complaint is the price.



Review #107

I reviewed this awhile back and it?s been eating at me lately that perhaps I didn?t give it (and some others) a fair shot, so I have been wanting to do a re-review to see what I can find 10 months and many drams later. I remember saying that this whisky ?really wasn?t my style? but over time these juicy wine influenced drams have really grown on me.

Bruichladdich Black Art II, 21 years old, 49.7% abv, Islay

Nose: Dull subdued spice on juicy raisin rind. Mushy browned banana and tart yogurt. Tingly sweet cr?me with a tangy edge. Sweet plums, winy, dull sherry? dusty chocolate port.

Palate: Plethora of fruit and sharp spice. Strawberry, kiwi, rep grapes, buttery gouda. Heavy, oily, earthy leather. Oaked brine.

Finish: Lingering, sweetness devolves to a perfuming bouquet of floral oil, linen, oak ash, rose oil. Buttery, tingly and lingering still.

87/100

Some thoughts: I found it extremely interesting how many very distinct notes I found the same (Rose oil as an example) but it?s odd that some of them seemed to move around on me. A Re-evaluation of what I think this tastes like? It really feels like a vatting of a young Macallan (like the CS) and an older Glenfarclas. Those two whiskies on their own are monumental, but together their distinctive qualities drown each other out rather than meld into the crescendo we long for. How they managed to pull off something so confusing to the mind in a single malt is beyond me but there you have it!



Yum, this sounds delicious. A bottle of Black Arts is high on my list of "special occasion" whisky. The only other one I want more is an old Bunnahabhain.

Great review Allumina!



Hey scotchit, I recently bought a new house and haven't had time to post much but I saw a couple Black Art II reviews pop up, so what better excuse to clear another one out of my backlog?? Here goes:

Bruichladdich Black Art 2, 21 years old. 49.7% abv, Islay

Color: Burnt copper rose

Nose: Heavy looming sherry. Stale port wine, vanilla extract. pixie-sticks. Musky ripe fruits, woody and leathery. Smells like a damned good bourbon

Palate: Salty, acutely sweet. Sherry and antifreeze. Lingering oak. rose oil and cold, clean linens. Fruity floral vinegars. Lots of wines bouncing around, frustrating to pin down. Nothing like what I expected... really caught me off guard.

Finish: Warming and lengthy. Tannins and some of the well rounded sweetness promised by the nose.

85/100

Not really my style, very Macallan-esque. The palate and finish simply didn't live up to the nose for me, at least it's another I can cross off my bucket[dram]-list.



A simply delicious dram.

Another bar review here, so no water notes!

Color: Amber +2 with a reddish tint

Aroma Neat: Red Apple, Pear, Nutmeg, Dark Fruits, Dried Fruits, Tame Peat, Slight Smoke, Lemon Peel, Raspberries, Malt Sweets,
Custard, Banana Creme. Sherry is immediately apparent, but NOT a sweet sherry. Perfectly balanced and complex.

Taste Neat: Malt, Black Pepper, Pear, Dried Cherries, Brown Sugar, Caramel, Baked Apples, Peat Whiffs, Oak (restrained). Again,
a very balanced mix of fresh bruichladdich spirit and dry sherry at just the right age. 

Finish: Tannic, Dried Fruits (raisins and others), Slight Sulfur (pleasant here). Excellent finish, fruity/bitter and long.

Conclusion:

Like an inverted uigeadail (more sherry, less peat), but with much more restraint. This is more civilized.

Amazingly balanced and complex in all aspects. 

Mature without wood dominating.

Peak of the distillers art and more proof that Bruichladdich is my favorite distillery.

Rating: 90/100



YES! thanks for this review. I've got a bottle of Black Art 2 waiting to be opened at home (still chewing through a few other bottlings at the moment).

What would you rate it out of 100 if you were to?



Whoops! Thanks for reminding me to put the rating on. It's a solid 90. I think if I tasted this at home I'd probably like it even more. 

I definitely want my own bottle now, they're pricy though!



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review from a sample I got from your mother - Bruichladdich 21 year old Black Arts Two, 99.4 proof 1989

definitely a bruichladdich. slightly decadent.  they have a distinct pasture to them.  I much prefer their smoke/peat varieties. I'm mildly disappointed but what else would I expect from these guys!  they have a ton of weird releases that are hit or miss.

86/100



Hi Scotchit! Lemme do another double feature, this time:

Bruichladdich Black Art 2

Islay, 49.7%

Thanks Dusty for the sample.

color: chestnut with a red tint

nose: plums, strawberry jam, roses, sweet blackberries, cola, oak, ripe apricots, honey

taste: blueberries, plums, blackcurrants, dextrose, oak, spices, cola, licorice, cocoa

finish: wax, oak, spices, licorice, tea, cola, dark fruits again and sweetness

Dark, bold, sweet, fruity and spicy. And great.

92/100

Bruichladdich Black Art 4

Islay, 49.2%

Thanks /u/TOModera for the sample.

color: bronze

nose: strawberry jam, blueberries, plums, milk chocolate, floral, dark grapes

taste: cola, cocoa, plums, dark cherries, mixed nuts, blueberries, dark grapes, soft tannins, oak

finish: oranges, oaky, slightly drying

Restrained at the beginning. Needs time to open up. Rich then, but still not as intense as the 2.

86/100



blueberries, plums, blackcurrants, dextrose, oak, spices, cola, licorice, cocoa

Haha so this is a rum, Barra Bay Oak Bay to be exact.



Back at The Feather's Pub again, drinking away a little stress. Not in that alcoholic way. More so in that "Taking an hour to pick apart a dram so I don't have to think about my exam in a week" way. That doesn't involve getting drunk.

It's a complicated life.

My wife has bought a new camera. Thus it's the perfect time for me to buy an expensive dram at a pub I like.

That's my story, and I'm sticking to it. Also I wanted to try some of this before other whisky nerds found out they had it and stormed the castle, as it were.

I really didn't think I'd ever have a chance to try Bruichladdich Black Art 2. I own Numero 4, I fluked into a swap for Numero 3, and I've written off Numero 1 as lost to the ages. Also I missed buying Numero 2 because it was a tad expensive.

And I'm an idiot.

For those of you who don't know, little is released about the Black Art series. It's made by Jim McEwan who tells no one else what he's doing with it. You have an age statement, an Abv that seems to denote cask strength, and an influence that seems to denote sherry casks.

So, I'm lucky enough to try this, so let's see if it was worth $24 an ounce.

Price: No Longer available at the LCBO

Region: Islay

Age: 21 years

Vintage: 1989

Abv: 49.7%

Colour: 7.5 YR 3/10

Nose: Strawberry, anise, currant, chocolate, toffee, ginger, cinnamon, floral, plum, Sprite, raspberry, peanuts, blackberry pie, spruce trees

Holy crap. /u/dustlesswalnut was right about this one...This is right mental.

You get one note at a time. Nothing clashes at all. Any good notes that pair well may come forward together, yet never anything bad.

Hot damn I could write notes on this all day. So complex.

Taste: Lemon, butter, currant, toffee, leather, chestnut, BBQ sauce, anise, pepper bacon

Bit more 'reserved' on the taste, if only because the nose was a little more random and complicated.

That's not to say this isn't the tits. Because this is amazing tits. And if you're not into tits, just replace tits with whatever body part you really like. Or ice cream, or something else. It's that.

There's a light smoke mixed with a buttery acidic note and some nuts and spice and a lot more.

Finish: Baking with my grandmother, cranberry, smoke, mushroom, butter, swimming in a lake, smoked cheddar, ginger, elk tenderloin

I guess I should clarify: Sometimes really good whisky sets off memories. This one did that. Thus it's already one of the better ones.

The baking note reminds me of spices, different ingredients, chocolate, excitement, new opportunities, and doing something I love, with someone I loved quite a bit.

The swimming note goes to a mixture of freshness, outside smells/flavours, algae, lily pad flowers, and happiness.

Conclusion: Well damn, this is amazing. Honestly, buy it. Just go and buy it. It's complex, crazy, and a lot of fun.

Did it set off memories left, right and center? No, however it's quite complex. Not the best whisky, but really, really fucking close to the best whisky. Kinda like how panties aren't the best thing on the planet, but they're next to the best thing.

Or to put it in a way that may not make you uncomfortable: This is a complex, amazingly well put together dram. The 3 had the issue that the complexity was there, however it was paired back and disorganized. The 2 does the nose right, the taste right, and the finish beautifully.

You may not enjoy it if you can't wrap your head around it being hard to pin down.

90/100

Scotch review #343, Islay review #76, Whisky Network review #510

1001 Whiskies to taste before you die review #240

Other Bruichladdich reviews:

Bruichladdich - BR5 - Elements of Islay

Bruichladdich 10 year - The Laddie Ten

Bruichladdich 15 year Old

Bruichladdich 16 year old First Growth Cuv?e A: Pauillac (Chateau Lafite)

Bruichladdich 35 year Douglas Laing Old Malt Cask

Bruichladdich Bere Barley 2006

Bruichladdich Black Art 3

Bruichladdich DNA 4th Edition MCMLXXXV

Bruichladdich Octomore 03.1

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte An Turas Mor

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte Scottish Barley Heavily Peated

Bruichladdich Resurrection 2001

Bruichladdich the Classic Laddie Scottish Barley



Also I missed buying Numero 2 because it was a tad expensive.

This sounds amazing, I wish I lived closer to Feather's Pub. To steal your concept, this review 'triggered off memories' of bottles I regret not buying at the LCBO. 

Oh hindsight. 



sounding a little defensive in that first paragraph.....

nice review. i might have to spring for this one at the pub sometime.



realized it sounded alcoholic-ish

It doesn't to me. You should never feel persecuted or wrong to have a drink to take the edge off. 

Granted, if every day is shit and you start drinking every day to take the edge off, obviously you should fix those things, but you get my point!



I just don't think you should worry or have to defend something that hopefully no one on /r/scotch will insinuate. 

Also, I really want to try this dram, but I am sure it's not in my state anywhere. 



It really a funky crazy thing. I love it, glad you finally tried it!

I need to send you a sample of High Noon. The best Black Art isn't even labeled as such!



Wait, what? High noon? I didn't even know that was a thing!

Give me a few weeks/maybe a month to drink up some samples and we can do a swap.



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.91   

Standard Deviation = 10.02  

Skewness = -2.78989 

Kurtosis = 11.73490 

Median = 80 

IQR = 9