Hello whisky nerds! Today we talk about Port Charlotte The Peat Project.

This is Bruichladdich's heavily peated, NAS, non-chill-filtered, natural color whisky bottled at 46% and apparently 40ppm. I say apparently, we'll get to that a bit. 

This is not a big peat bomb like the name would lead you to believe. It is CERTAINLY peated, but not as aggressively as some of your other Islay stand-outs. Quite lovely, not too expensive at $50-$60 (I think), but nothing worth going crazy to find. In many ways it called me back to The Laddie 10, but I really preferred that. 

Also, as a note, does anyone else find the "Progressive Hebridean Distillers" schtick annoying? I do. I really do. 

84/100



Had more than a glass or two, so something is working for me ;)

Really, it's quite nice, but for the money I'd have something else. 



40 ppm is pretty heavy peating, at least historically. It's just not at bomb levels like Corryvreckan or Octomore (Bruichladdie's insanely peated whisky). 

EDIT: Also, phenol levels are decreased through distillation and maturation. I have a sample of 4 month old peated spirit peated to 50 ppm which is extremely powerful. 



Laphroaig and its two close neighbors, Lagavulin and Ardbeg, all derive their water from sources that pass through peat, and the distilleries also heavily peat their barley

http://www.theatlantic.com/past/docs/issues/99dec/9912kummer2.htm



Hello again Scotchit! One more for tonight, this time an offering from Bruichladdich, the Port Charlotte Peat Project, NAS scotch, bottled at 46% and 40ppm of peat. Unfortunately I had written my review notes and neglected to take a photo, so my apologies for the stock photo I used from Google. Also, this was one of the first scotches I took notes on, so my apologies for the shorter than previous observations.

Appearance: Straw coloured

Nose: bananas, dried fruit, honey and plums, this has the nose of a fairly young spirit

Palate: peat, citrus, salt, brine, seaweed, again that youthful note coming through

Finish: rather short unfortunately, unripe banana similar to the nose, sour cherries, salty

Overall / final thoughts: for the price point, around $60 CAD after taxes, this is my go-to daily scotch, for the depth of flavour, and character that this bottling delivers, it is really good value for the money. I ended up giving the last 2 pours to my good friend who got me into scotch so that he could give this one a try, so I definitely need to get to the store and pick up a new bottle shortly. 

Rating: 85/100



Well someone else posted one recently so...Scotchit, here's another quick and painless review of something I picked up at the airport. It was ?30/?35/$47 for 700ml. This is Bruichladdich's attempt to recreate their spirit of 1881. It is peated to 40ppm and matured in ex-bourbon casks, NAS concocted from various vintages and bottled at 46% ABV. 

Port Charlotte The Peat Project, Islay single malt, ABV 46%, non chill filtered, no e150a

Nose: Flour, raw cookie dough, boiled sweets (candy), gentle peat smoke, big dollop of vanilla, dominant floral notes, wet straw, soft lemon, sugary malt, a little mint, salt in the background

Palate: Smokey peat wrapped in charcoal, sweet, icing sugar, honey, lemon meringue pie filling, quite creamy, more vanilla and some caramel, dry and tannic and oak-y, subtle herbal quality, waxy mouthfeel

Finish: Molten honey mixed with more caramel, a little wheat, becomes slightly fruity, raisins, grassy, aftertase of sherbet powder and vegetation, slow resonating burn

Bloody hell is this sweet. This is like a sugary dessert someone's thrown into a bonfire made of lemons. It is pretty uneventful right up until that odd aftertaste note....And really there's not much else to say. This is quite the one trick pony but it's tough to really call it out on it, because what it lacks in complexity, it makes up for in doing what it does do very well. I'd normally berate it for being so one track but honestly this is a very tasty dram and yknow, not every dram has to be the second coming of the Malt Messiah. This is a solid table scotch if you're feeling a bit peaty, just make sure you save it for dessert!

75/100



An interesting second take, which I appreciate! We disagree, obviously, but I can definitely see where some of your notes are coming from. I might have to go back a take a second look in the next couple days, though I'm not sure anything will change how charmed I was by this whisky.

Excellent review.



Hello Scotchit,  I haven't done a review of scotch for a while.  The Holidays beat my ass and I went on a bourbon kick for a while.  But, I'm back.  I'm here with a a review of the Bruichladdich Port Charlotte Peat Project.  I had this during several sittings from the same bottle.  I was originally disappointed by it, but I came around to appreciate it.  

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte The Peat Project

46%, Non-Chillfiltered, No Colorant Added

$59.99

Sampled with a Glencairn*

Color: Light colored as expected.  White winish.

Nose: Heavy on the peat with a dash of smoke, distant ocean air, floral notes (I'm not very good at these)

Taste: Big dry peat, sharp oak, creamy vanilla cereal, slight saltiness

Finish: Medium to long finish. Dry tangy oak, peat, briney, slight sweetness that suggests honey.

88/100

Overall, well rounded and balanced.  The peat is strong, but does not overpower.  My notes make The Peat Project sound more complex than it actually tastes.  Would I buy?  I don't think so.  Most places have this for $59 or more in my area.  At that price there is just to much competition.  I would take Ardbeg Uigeadail over this for an example, every time.  Or for less money pick up Benromach 10 which is more complex and less money for my taste buds. But, if I ever found the Peat Project for less money I may be enticed to purchase to just change it up.

Cheers!



It's tasty, but you may be disappointed at first.  Like I said, I really had to warm up to it.

I unfortunately have not had the An Turas Mor.  Bruichladdich is scarce around the bars and restaurants by me.  So, it's hard to sample without splurging on a whole bottle or buying a bottle with friends. It's even hard to purchase given all the different bottlings...so many bottlings... Distribution is not that great here.



ah, well, thanks. I enjoyed the An Turas Mor, so I'm betting I'll like the Peat Project. 

Oddly, I enjoyed it more at first, then my pleasure waned as I made my way through the bottle - takes all kinds!



[Full Disclosure. This is the first Bruichladdich that I?ve formally sat down to review. However, I have sampled a few others, and quite liked them all, in particular a note I?ve found in all of them that I?ve never found anywhere?a note that (as crazy as it sounds) has always reminded me vaguely of movie theatre popcorn butter (a kind of creamy, buttery, oily sweetness, I guess?). I have no idea why I so enjoy that note or where that note comes from, and I?ve never seen another Bruichladdich review observe that particular note (or anything else I could interpret as that note), so take what follows as you will, with however many grains of salt necessary.]

I picked up the Port Charlotte Peat Project having heard nothing about the specific bottling. But, I like peat and I liked the other Bruichladdich offerings I?d tried, and the price was right, so I thought it was worth a shot. It is, according to the bottle, a mixture of peated whiskies of a number of vintages (?for added complexity?). And, unlike some other impulse purchases I?ve made, I?m very happy with the end result.

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte The Peat Project; NAS; 700ml; $58 Cdn. in the province of Alberta; neither chill-filtered nor artificially coloured; peated (according to the tin) 40ppm, according to the blurb "This Peat Project bottling brings together spirit from a number of different vintages for added complexity . . ."

Appearance: Quite light?clearly not artificially coloured, because this is as light as a glass of lightly-coloured white wine (suggesting also the presence of some young whiskies here). A bit hazy, too. But lovely just the same for its au naturel honesty. Really like the Bruichladdich bottles and tins, too.

Nose: This is peaty, but even for 40ppm, it doesn?t seem overwhelmingly so. In fact, it?s quite nice and well-balanced, in terms of being an integrated mix where the peat and the lighter floral notes really mingle nicely. Peat (but not so much smoke), that buttery note I mentioned above, butterscotch, vanilla. Cereal, hay. Faint toasted coconut. Licorice. Cinnamon. Clove. Honey. Maybe a bit of brininess. Very nice.  Just a couple drops of water really bring out that lovely buttery note even more, along with more of the toasted coconut and a bit of licorice. More brine, maybe a hint of brown sugar?

Taste: Warm, white pepper. There?s that real youthful vibrancy?this is a nice whisky, but it?s not going to let you forget it?s a young whisky (and I think that may actually make it more interesting). Nice mouthfeel, a good body to this whisky. Very, very creamy on the mouth. Licorice, vanilla, butterscotch. Toasted coconut. Again, really nice. A drop of water mutes the heat a bit, but also mutes the flavour as well, drawing back on the other elements to show off the peat.

Finish: Medium-length and nice. A bit of tingling heat. Dry. Peat. Warm. Campfire. Licorice. Leather. Toasted coconut.

Final Thoughts: For the price, a pretty fabulous whisky. This is clearly a youthful whisky, but I?d actually describe it as more ?energetic? and ?lively? than I would ?too young?, and its flavour profile is a nice mixture of the lighter, sweeter, floral top-notes with a nice three-dimensional (but not overwhelming) peaty character. Worth a try, I think.

Score: 86



Diacetyl is formed in fermentation -- Diacetyl has "buttery" flavor and it used on movie theater popcorn -- Whisky tastes like popcorn.

Or something.



First: thanks for the review.

Question: Have you had bruichladdich Peat or Waves? If so, which would you recommend? I just found a honeyhole of each and was under the impression those were discontinued? I've had the Laddie 10 (Like it), An Turas Mor (LOVE it) and the 20yo Flirtation (second edition-also loved). Other than that, I am unfamiliar with Bruichladdich. 



Well, I also really like un-peated too. Now you see my dilemma.

Aw fuck it. I'll just get both.



Waves is actually lightly peated. 

/Bruichladdich fanboy



I just like listening to the dulcet tones of Mr McEwan.

swoon



Greetings, r/scotch! I received three samples in the Mega Mystery Exchange Swap Extravaganza from /u/Hailchaos. Thanks so much for the drams, sir. They were equally delicious in their own right. Now that I knew what they were, I decided to go back and revaluate them, but to be honest, my scores and notes stayed relatively the same . . . . 

Bruichladdich's Port Charlotte The Peat Project, Islay Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 46% abv; Natural colour; Non-Chill Filtered; peated at 40ppm; wine-searcher guestimates about $50-$60 for a 750mL bottle; enjoyed a neat dram

Color: Nearly clear, yellow-tinted 

Nosing: Sweet peat, bubble gum, fizzy lemon-lime soda, lemon rind, general boiled fruits such as berries, eucalyptus

Tasting: Peat blast, a little black pepper, phenolic and drying

Finish: Fairly long cold peat with a lingering earthy and vegetal note

Score: 72/100

A huge peat blast in the nose, palate and finish. Boom, boom, boom, it knocks out right away. Very much like Ardbeg, this isn't really up my alley with its one-sided nature. I really do like peat, but "peat monsters" just don't excite me enough. It needs to have more character than that. THis is officially my first Bruichladdich, so let's hope there are better ones for me out there.

Talisker Distiller's Edition 2012, Island Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 45.8% abv; wine-searcher guestimates about $65-$75 for a 750mL bottle locally; enjoyed a neat dram

Color: Honey gold 

Nosing: Fruity peat, rosy smoke, cayenne pepper, bandaids, red licorice, distinct Talisker medicinal iodine

Tasting: Peat and sherry combo blast, sweet and spicy, cracked black pepper, smoky lemon, smoked nuts

Finish: Fairly long, warm and smoky, right up my alley

Score: 92/100

I've wanted to try this for a while, and I'm glad I did. The emphasis on a smoky character is exactly what I look for in a dram. By the way, if you have good recommendations for other whiskies like Talisker DE, I'm open to suggestions there as well. Beautiful stuff and would love a full bottle. It does the peat and sherry combo just as well as Uigedail, albeit Uigeadail has a much better mouthfeel with its cask-strength power (why the hell is Talisker insistent on keeping its abv at the nonsensical 45.8?!), so because of price and that fact, I wouldn't rave about this quite as highly as I would initially want to. 

Scotch whisky reviews #68 and 69

Whisky reviews #93 and 94



Good evening my friends! Last night I posted a review of the awesome Bruichladdich Octomore 1.1 for your viewing pleasure, and with the interesting discussion found here about our beloved Bruichladdich?s extensive and eclectic lineup, I figured why not launch an all-out Laddy assault at your face? 

So without any more hot air from me, here comes reviews 43-46!

Bruichladdich First Growth Cuvee E (Sauternes), Islay, 46% ABV

Nose: Ripe red fruits, Brown sugar oatmeal. Sea air, summer melon juice.

Palate: Bit of alcohol bite which sets up an amazingly balanced feel, bright spices, dull cabernet, sea salt, tart greek yogurt.

Finish: Succulent and sweet, white pepper, honey, dry oak.

90/100

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte An Turas Mor, Islay, 46% ABV

Nose: Peat, brine, apple cinnamon. Wet laundry, cherry cough syrup. Butter, witch hazel.

Palate: Earthy, peat, red clay. Bitter lemonade made with sea water. Quite floral and oily up front

Finish: Light dry oak, tingling bitternet, whole wheat bread and mustard seed. Peaty ghost.

83/100

Great nose, everything else was pretty average.

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte Peat Project, Islay, 46% ABV, NCF

Nose: Stinging alcohol burn, citrus zest, salt, light peat. Very sharp and distinct notes, they certainly don?t blend together

Palate: Oily and round. Surprisingly silky. Bitter tangerine rind, peat with some slight smoke. Hints of Chinese 5-spice, particularly ginger, white pepper.

Finish: Tangy, wafty smoke, drying. Quite floral in nature, distinct bitterness comes through.

80/100

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte 10 Tro Na Linntean, Islay, 59.8% ABV

Nose: Lemon juice, cranberry juice. Very fresh, crisp peat. Pinesol. Woodshop dust.

Palate: Lemon eclairs. Sultanas, Honey Nut Cheerio?s. Dry champagne. Hay fire, peat.

Finish: Slightly floral, but oily. Juicy fruits? fruity pebble cereal. Honey suckle, light peat smoke. Background turns quite dry, bitter and floral.

90/100

Undeniably Laddy, the kind of release they put out that keeps me coming back for more.

I would like to thanks all of my friends over at /r/scotchswap who made these samples possible!



I'm off to the Victoria Whisky Festival next week, thought I'd get in another review or two before I leave.

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte

46% ABV

Nose: Sooty, rubbery peat smoke, like a rubber eraser pulled from the ashes of a fire.  The peat is most certainly not overpowering.  Briny sea salt, lemon-drop candies and a buttery creaminess, like a Werther's candy without the caramel.  Some grassy notes as well.  Barley and freshly cut hay.  With water, some very faint notes of toasted almonds and coconut came out.

Taste: Young and moderately smoky.  The arrival is slightly oily and floral.  Once the development starts, more salt and lemon arrive.  Near the finish, things sweeten up a bit.  The American Oak casks help conjure up tiny amounts of vanilla and butterscotch.

Finish:  The short finish brings some new spicy notes.  Black pepper and allspice.  It is still floral in nature with a bit of road tar kicked in for good measure.  For me, adding a few drops of water did nothing as far as enhancing or bringing out new flavors or aromas.

A young Islay whisky that really didn't hit home for me as much as I was hoping.  It was quite affordable though.  If you were to glance over my notes you might think it was quite complex, with a lot going on, but  the majority of smells and flavors were delivered in very small doses.  The price helps sweeten the pot somewhat.

86/100

S.M.W.S. 127.39  - Port Charlotte 11yr.

66.7% ABV

"Intensely tasty"

Refill Sherry Butt - Distilled June 21, 2002

Nose: The peat is thicker and oilier on the nose than the standard Port Charlotte.  An Ardbeg like waft of smoked salmon hits right away.  Lemon zest, similar to the standard Port Charlotte, but I think the higher ABV gives it a crisper, sharper note.  Salty Bacon - Yayyy!  Slightly yeasty with dried tobacco.  The peat smoke is noticeably more evident.  I didn't pick up on as many aromas in this compared to the O.B., but what was there was definitely more pronounced and discernible.

Taste: The arrival begins very quietly with not much going on, then 2 seconds later it arrives in a big way.  A big hit of alcohol jump starts your heart, but just as quickly as it appears, it retreats.  Once the initial alcohol wallop fades, out came notes of rubber, more smoked fish, pencil shavings.  Adding water really impacted the complexity.  With water, soft fruity flavors came through.  Cherries, lemon sherbet, grapefruit and dark chocolate.

Finish: The finish is long and syrupy at first.  Molasses and fresh leather at first, then it turns tart with some classic Bruichladdich sea salt (finally!) and grapefruit.

Bigger and bolder than the standard Port Charlotte.  The higher ABV really brings the party to life.  I liked the big alcohol hit because it had plenty of zip, but it didn't linger and dominate.  Adding water is a must to bring the added complexity to life.  I didn't pick up on as many flavors and aromas as I did with the O.B., but what was there, was more well defined and distinctive.

89/100

The 11yr. takes the top spot for me on this one.  The extra age and higher ABV really beefs up what's in the bottle. The standard bottling is O.K., with a thumbs up for offering craft presentation at a good price.



Greetings Scotchit! My last review, the Lagavulin 12 head-to-head, got some decent feedback and I happened to have a similar situation here, so I present to you: the Port Charlotte head-to-head!

I believe the An Turas Mor is 2010's Port Charlotte release, and The Peat Project is 2011 and onwards (I think it's entering the main lineup). Both are NAS, unchillfiltered, natural colour and bottled at 46%, both are peated to 44 ppm, so the only difference is literally which casks were batched.

So that's the intro, let's see the reviews!

Review #45: Port Charlotte An Turas Mor
Islay, 46% ABV, NAS, nonchillfiltered, natural colour, 50ml sample courtesy of glinsvad

Nose: dry white wine, sour grapes, subdued peat, herbal, slight peaches

The nose is a lot like a white wine - it's mainly dry and sour, yeasty. There's a bit of herbal note in there, but I couldn't identify what exactly it is - maybe one of those ones no one knows how to use. Tarragon, for example. Overall, it's a lot like Ardbeg 10, in that it's peaty, but also winey and dry.

Taste: soft and silky mouthfeel, lots of vanilla, double cream, pound cake, turns dry, restrained peat smoke, salt and pepper

Whoa, didn't call that. That's delicious. Amazingly smooth and filling mouthfeel, incredibly pleasant on the tongue. A lot sweeter at first, like taking a bite out of a pound cake and letting it melt on your mouth. Over time, it shifts from that sweetness to become almost meaty, like a grilled pepper steak. 

Finish: quite long, dry, peat, vanilla, sour grapefruit, prickly black pepper and salt

A very consistent transition out of the taste. Over time, goes drier and sour, with meaty salt and pepper notes along with the peat. It's definitely not the main event here, but it's not bad.

Summary: Well, that's a lot better than I expected. Most Bruichladdichs I find unpleasantly sour and yeasty, and that's definitely present on the nose, but the taste is unlike anything I've had from them. It's really rather good.

I get that sourness in the nose in every Bruichladdich whisky, and my pet theory is that it occurs because they let the wort ferment for 55 hours, which is longer than most distilleries on Islay. More sugar gets converted to alcohol, leaving the wort less sweet and more yeasty, which affects the new make.

This is a really challenging whisky to score, or even rank. It's complex, and it's not really a daily dram, but it oozes quality. It doesn't hold a candle to the best Islays I've tried, but it's comparable to many of them.

Score: 83/100
Between Ardbeg 10 and Laphroaig 10.

Review #46: Port Charlotte The Peat Project
Islay, 46% ABV, NAS, nonchillfiltered, natural colour, ?45 for 700ml at Bruichladdich distillery

Nose: dry white wine, sour yeast, peat smoke, pickle juice, cinnamon

Overwhelmingly dry, salty and sour. Not a rich, warm peat smoke, but rather like cold smoked salmon. It's very Bruichladdich, which means I'm not really a fan. 

Taste: tangy sweet citrus, sweet peaches, wave of sour citrus, vanilla, honey, bitter, peat smoke, mild brine

A really strange development. Starts out very, very sweet, then there's a wave of sour citrus that wipes the sweetness away, but it creeps back in. Peat is definitely not the main event here - much less so than in the An Turas Mor. Sweet and sour throughout.

Finish: long in length, sour citrus, sweet malt, vanilla, dry peat

Sweet and sour, again. Vanilla sweetness gives way to citrus and dry (not bitter) peat. 

Summary: Again, this is very much like the An Turas Mor, but in a lot of ways worse. The nose is yeasty and not very pleasant, and the palate is entirely different but not as strong as the An Turas Mor. Here, though, it's not as balanced. Too sour. I don't like this as much, which is a shame, because this is the one I have a bottle of.

Score: 75/100
OK, but wouldn't buy it again.

So there you have it - one pretty good, one just decent. 

I believe the An Turas Mor is pretty much sold out by now, but that was a quality dram. I'd be interested in trying the Port Charlotte 10 or some of the PC releases (ScotchSwap, anyone?), but the bottle I have I'm not that big a fan of, unfortunately.



Well, see, I dunno. It's a tough one. It's definitely good, but the nose is a let down. If it was in line with the palate and finish, it'd score 5 more points easy.

I liked it, but it wasn't in the same ballpark as Laphroaig 10 CS, Uigeadail or Lagavulin 12 (2011). Then I got down to comparing it to Laphroaig 10. I like that more than the An Turas Mor, but I like the ATM more than the Ardbeg 10.

So yeah, I'd rather just rank them than score them, but I've already scored the others.



I see. Thanks for clearing that up. As I see it if it ranks between Laphroaig 10 and Ardbeg 10 then it must be a pretty decent malt.

Also, I was mistaking this with the expensive lines of Port Charlotte (7, 8, 9, etc.) that's why I was saying it should be better than the peat project. I'm sorry I had you rambling a bit. The inconsistencies in the nose, taste, and finish of ATM must be the variation in quality from the various vintages from which its made.



Thanks to /u/ForbiddenWaffle for the sample!  Peated to 44ppm.  Natural color and unchill-filtered.  The sample has some stuff floating in it, maybe due to being not filtered?  Or maybe just broken cork?  Bottled at 46% ABV.

?

Nose:  Soft soothing peat smoke.  Sea spray and vanilla.  A bit floral as well.  Its very subdued compared to the PC series of course.  And very similar to the Scotish Barley offering that they now have.  I wish I had that one still so I could compare them side by side.

Palate:  Medium weight but with a nice oiliness.  Sweet and sour.  Like lemon cream pie.  Lots of apples and pears as well.  The smoke is there from the start to the finish.  Always there but never over the top.  Smoother than I remember the Scottish Barley being, but still very young with lots of the spirit still apparent.

Finish:  Medium short finish.  Everything fades into the sea salt and smoke.  Maybe a hint of iodine as well.

Score: 85/100

?

I wonder where this fit into things historically?  Before the NAS Classic Laddie and Scottish Barley were their standard statements, they had the Laddie Ten and the Port Charlotte Ten.  They came out with the PC series for travel retail, and this was supposed to be a companion piece to that line.  So was it sold in tandem with the Port Charlotte Ten, or before that?  Whatever the case, it seems very similar to the currently available Scottish Barley.  Perhaps a bit better, though the ABV is a bit less.  Interesting stuff as usual, and glad I got to taste it.

?

/u/review_bot 'Bruichladdich'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Bruichladdich:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



The progression of NAS Port Charlottes:

Peat Project

An Turas Mor

Scottish Barley

Islay Barley