My birthday Vertical review of Bruichladdich Black Art 3.1 and Bruichladdich Golder Still

Review #52: Bruichladdich Black Art 3.1
Age: 22
ABV: 48.7%
Price: $130

Color: pinkish amber

Nose: fruity, hint of port, hint of peat, sherry, plums, apples, hint of sea air, cabernet sauvignon, vanilla

The nose reminds me of the [Vom Fass Bruichladdich 20[(http://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/1qupxr/a_review_vom_fass_bruichladdich_20yo/) I reviewed a few weeks ago. The sherry notes reminds me of the notes I get from Glenfarclas.

Taste: spicy, wine-y, cereal, hint of port, vanilla, cream, hint of citrus,  hint of salt, sherry

After the wave of wine-y and fruity sweetness, you get to taste the familiar Bruichladdich cereal and malty like taste. One of the most complex whiskys I've had. Absolutely lovely. Took my mind off everything while drinking this. 

Finish: long, sweet, spicy, citrusy. yum

Conclusion: This is probably the most unique whisky I've had so far. I love this. The nose and taste has pretty much most of the flavors I'm looking for in a whisky. Amazing balance of sherry, fruity, malty and peat notes.

Score: 93

Happy birthday! Excellent choice in celebratory malts!

The Black Art 3 is amazing-- where on earth did you find such a good price? I just found a bottle online for $164 delivered, which was $45 cheaper than in stores near me. 

I've got a swap sample of the Golder Still. Haven't tried it yet, but your review has enticed me!



I've tried Redder and Golder. I've never had Blacker. Redder was great, but honestly I didn't get enough time with it to fully explore it. Golder I have and love. 

Same here re your other comment about silly money on collectables. Sure it's nice, but I personally have other things to also spend on.



Was it worth it? Might want to include a sample in our next swap if you're willing. 

(Still waiting on my liquor store to get my order in. Kind of a pain, it's been ~3 weeks...)



I now regret selling the last bottle of Golder Still to a redditor....

Great review.



This has been talked about quite a bit here. Some love it, many think it's overrated or not worth the price. Now I get to find out for myself. Thanks to UncleTobys for the sample!

Bruichladdich Black Art 3. Islay single malt, aged 22 years in a variety of casks and bottled at a cask strength of 48.7% ABV. Local bottle price: $250 for 700mL.

Nose: Liquorice, black plums, malty vanilla, touches of lime. Big complex red wine character; rivers of shiraz, pedro ximenez sherry, and tawny port flowing together. Complex, promising.

Palate: Unbelievably rich and full-bodied. Golden syrup, milk chocolate, and more of the juicy wine notes. Some more citrus; red grapefruit, as well as cherries and cranberries.

Finish: Red wine sediment, pipe tobacco, honey, dry oak, chilli flakes. Sweet stewed fruit pudding, with plums, pears, strawberries, even some mango. Decadently long and satisfying.

On my first sip I already knew I was going to start saving for a full bottle. This is a masterpiece. Easily in the top 5 whiskies I have ever tasted. I love red wine and I love whisky, and this is truly the best of both worlds. 

I wonder what the business meeting between Jim McEwan and Mephistopheles was like.

98/100



This shit is cray. I just looked at my notes and it looks like we shared a very similar experience.

I'm having a dram right now and I'm getting a lot of chocolate in the nose which I didn't notice in my review. I'm still discovering new things every time I drink this - so many layers of complexity!

I'm such a McEwan fanboy.



You're very welcome!

I have also noticed that I get sulphurous notes in drams and you don't. Do you think it's because I'm not a wine drinker? I understand that sulphur is used as a preservative in wine.



No it's in such a small quantity that it is past the threshold of human senses iirc. Whatever sulfurous notes you are finding isn't from the wine. 

I'm not saying there aren't sulfurous compounds in Scotch because I don't know. I think there are based on some notes I have found over time. 



Bruichladdich Black Arts 3.1 - 48.7%, $200 

Nose: Strong leather, musty tobacco, sweet deep caramel, deep 
wine, stewed fruits of apples, pears and plums, faint smoke, light salt and light malt. 

Taste: Spicy oak, dry red wine, funky oak, lightly musty, light fruits, very faint smoke. Light mouthfeel. 

Finish: The leather and tobacco come through with some malt as well, fruit and wine fade first and fast leaving malt and a drying end to the finish. Medium length. 

Notes: This slaps you in the face with the age. All the deep flavors that I want with a lovely aged and wine influenced scotch.  

87/100 



I tried this on Islay last May, but it really did not impress me as much as it seemed to impress you. I can recall the tastes, but there was something odd with this whisky that didn't quite do it for me. Perhaps my expectations were to high or simply made me expect something totally different.

Would like to try it again though, to see if I would feel different about it today.



22 year old scotch, but they don't tell us anything more. Interesting. 1 oz sample courtesy of /u/mattatoe. Let's go!

Nose: that highland musk, consisting of rotten raisins in a sun heated plastic bucket. Maybe a few wilted geraniums in the mix too. Seems like a bit of sherry influence, red wine, figs, fruitcake?

Taste: unexpectedly spicy in entry, the taste otherwise delivers what the nose promised with musty fruit, dried fruit and red grapes; very sweet with cinnamon too.

Finish: dark fruit sweetness as it departs the mouth, reminiscent of, but subtly different than, sherry. It seems that all the burn was in the very first seconds of the taste and none is left us here - just a little bit in the back of the mouth and top of the throat. There is an aftertaste, it's probably best described as figs or raisins with some oak bitterness as it fades.

really wish this was more than a one ounce sample as I'd like to try it beside highland park dark origins. It's been a few months, but honestly it tastes like I remember that. So I'll borrow it's score...

Score: 85/100

Would I buy it again? No, it's too expensive. If I have a hankering for this taste (and honestly it's not something I want very often at all) I may just get another Dark Origins.



Good! Have your Indi hat and whip ready! You might need the Sherlock pipe as well...   

Muhahahaha



This is one of the features I appreciate about my semi-blind review format.  I get a chance to compose notes and a score blind, but I also get a chance to comment and amend on the second half, post reveal.  It helps with avoiding the pressure to rate expensive whisky highly. 

*edit to be clear: this wasn't composed semi-blind, but a lot of my recent one-off reviews have been.



Bruichladdich Black Art 3, 48.7% ABV

Edition 03.1, Aged 22 years, NCF, no added colour.

A big thank you to Juke_box who sent me this in a /r/scotchswap trade! I would also like to take this opportunity to reassure all the people that I'm trading with (and the pay-it-forward guys) that I haven't forgotten about our arrangements. I still haven't received my empty bottles but I have sent Amazon an email and they said that if I don't receive them by Friday, they'll send me out another lot. In the meantime, I'll try to source some bottles locally. Sorry guys!

Nose: Sweet and sour. Slightly soapy and a bit flinty. Vanilla and brine. Blood oranges, plums and berries. Lime and lemon juice - very citric and acidic. Potpourri, pine, oak and incense. Outrageously complex and juicy.

Taste: Very tart and dry. Faint rubber (not unpleasant). Salted toffee, muscat grapes and poached pear. Rich coffee and chocolate bitterness. Grilled fennel and dried figs.

Finish: Dry oak and tannins. Black pepper, cardamom and anise. Sweet tobacco, honey and bitter/sour grapefruit. A tiny hint of sulphur. Long and dry.

This shit is cray cray. The nose promises an incredible Scotch journey and the taste/finish deliver on that promise. Some people may not like the sulphurous and soapy notes, but they didn't really bother me at all. 

Bruichladdich is now officially my favourite distillery; sometimes they get it wrong (ahem, 21yo) but most of the time they get it right. I tend to rate weird whiskies highly and this dram very weird. And the bottle is really cool.

93/100

Review #40, thanks for reading.



This shit is cray cray. The nose promises an incredible Scotch journey and the taste/finish deliver on that promise. 

Hmm, crazy? Isn't this how a scotch should be? :-)



I had to go back and check out your review of Black Arts 3, this stuff sounds bonkers. I want a bottle now more than ever.

Sounds superb. Great review.



this dram very weird. And the bottle is really cool.

Yeah, and the whisky is really nice, but the price isn't.



Laddie 10 is a solid dram and there are a bunch of reviews in the archive.

Haven't tried the Classic, but gx86 reviewed it recently and quite liked it.



This is top 5 whiskies I've ever had the pleasure of trying. My local whisky bar had it and was selling it for $45/dram. Luckily I'm friends with the bartender and didn't have to pay for it. Incredible, almost indescribable scotch. Fruit, sherry, port, smoke, smooth bright goodness. Each sip is like taking a vacation. Time stops. 

EDIT: Un-autocorrect



I've hit critical mass with fancy Bruichladdich samples, and I need to taste them.  Given my lack of willpower, tonight is the night.  :)

?

We'll start with something I've been hyped about for awhile.  Thanks to /u/vertical_bog for the sample!  Distilled in 1989.  Aged 22 years in various ex-bourbon and ex-wine barrels.  Cask Strength, Non-Chill Filtered, Natural Color.  Bottled at 48.7% ABV.  

Nose: Funky wine, strawberries, plums, jam.  Some salty air and citrus.  Very heady already.

Palate: Rich and big and oily.  Holy moly its like a million flavors exploded in my mouth all at once.  Strawberries, oranges, quince, and some lemon.  Saltiness.  Nutiness.  Earth and mushrooms.  Leather and mild peat smoke.

Finish: Citrus fades to light peat.  Quite a bit of spice on the finish.  Lots of salinity and earthiness.  Damn the finish lasts forever.

Score: 97/100

This is fucking incredible.  And weird.  I've honestly never had anything like this before.  Its somehow ridiculously complex and all over the place and still delicious as hell.  Even at the crazy price it goes for, I'd buy one if I could even find it at the store.

?

Older Bruichladdich reviews:



I've tried the 2.2, which was very weird and messy. I have a bottle of 4.1 on my shelf, which will hopefully be better.

Great review!



I hear that they are generally ranked 3.1>1.1>4.1>2.1. 

I'd love me some of the 3.1...



I bet there are some floating around in tiny shops. Some private sales otherwise.

I haven't seen it for a reasonable price for a long time.



HTFW.com. It's roughly $410 after shipping to the US, but it's in stock.  

Edit: and it's gone. Damn, that was quick.   



Review 153: Bruichladdich Black Art 3.1 

Thanks to one of the European swappers for the sample, it was long enough ago I do not remember which one of you traded me this sample. 

Nose: Sherry is the first thing that jumps out, plums, raisins, apricots, vanilla, dark chocolate, espresso, cloves, red fruit jam, orange zest. 

Palate: Clove, oily, bold flavors, strawberries, raisins, salt, oak, red wine, plums. Touch of smoke. 

Finish: Cloves, cinnamon, little bit of pepper. Raisins, vanilla,strawberries.Cirtus, tobacco. Medium to long, lots going on. 

Score: 90

This is delicious, bold and big flavors, with lots going on. By no means a delicate whisky to try and pick apart. The flavors jump out at you. 



It's a cut crystal glencairn, they are beautiful and weigh a couple times more than a standard glencairn. 

Mine was a gift, they are s little on the costly side; 

https://www.thewhiskyexchange.com/p/14181/glencairn-cut-crystal-whisky-glass 



Yeah, it sounded like it. They have all sorts of desirable old stuff at desirable old prices!

Wait until I get actual physical receipt of the one they sold me over the phone today, then I'll share the love.



As promised!

Now that I've made sure nothing happened with my shipment, I can spill the whisky beans on where I found it: Joyal's Liquors in NJ. They ship, but you have to call. And not everything on their online inventory page is actually there, but it's definitely worth a browse and a phone call for the stuff with hot prices.

http://www.joyalsliquors.com/products/show-product/7/Scotch%20Whiskey/



Thank you, /u/nonmagnetic for sending me this awesome Bruichladdich expression!

Per the usual, the sample was tasted blind initially, with notes in italics added during the second (revealed) tasting if I found anything important.

?

Bruichladdich Black Art 3.1 22yr ? 48.7%

?

Average score to date: 83

?

There?s a lot going on with this whisky ? the flavors are opulent, bordering on overwhelming. The sugary Bruichladdich vein runs through Black Art like the other non-peated varietals, but it?s balanced out by the time spent in oak. All that said, it loses points for me on the finish, which is just a tinge too sweet. The poppy helps, but it?s overwhelmed by the raisins in the end. I think this is currently the third-best Bruichladdich I?ve tasted, which is actually high praise, considering my proclivity for the Octomores.



It's syrah cask, right? And 208ppm<3

Do you know where I can find the duty free selection of JFK?



Yes! 

And I don't know :( I'd like to know which airports do have it, though.



A couple weeks ago I came across this for a (relatively) friendly price. I then posed the question to /r/scotch whether or not it was worth picking up, and I was assured in no uncertain terms I would be best served by picking it up.

Bruichladdich keeps the cask types used for this a mystery (as you might tell by the "Black Art" name). This one is 22 years old, being distilled in 1989 and bottled in 2012. As it is Bruichladdich post-Mark Reynier revival, it is bottled without chill-filtration and with natural color.

48.7% abv

Nose - Red grape juice, raisins, cloves, strawberry jam, dark chocolate, coffee, a hint of smoke rising through ocean air?like someone just put out a campfire while you're by the ocean. Fruity notes stronger than the earthy/smoky ones. Unique. 

Taste - Sweet and fruity - the red grape juice and strawberry jam notes make their presence felt in a big way here, alongside a slightly briny element. Getting some spices as it develops, then getting some fruitcake and candied pecan notes just before the finish. Interesting development, I'm getting different notes at different phases here. Body is maybe a 7-7.5 on a 1-10 scale. 

Finish - Big with loads of cinnamon and clove, a hint of smoke, and a berry-like tartness.

I must say scotchit, despite the fact this was a personal record for me in terms of how much I spent on 1 bottle, you did not steer me wrong - one of the most interesting, unique, and tasty whiskies I've ever had the pleasure to taste. If I had to guess, I would say this is a combination of peated (maybe peated and bourbon cask matured?), port matured, and sherried whisky, all combined in one sublime masterpiece, I get notes with this I associate with all types of those whiskies - the red grape/strawberry jam from port finished whisky, the Christmas cakey, clove, nutmeg, and dark dried fruit from sherry, and a bit of smoke from the peat, and with a hint of The Laddie salinity. Idk about $300/bottle for this, as that's pretty steep for any whisky in my book, but if you find the 3 or 3.1 for <$200 go for it.

93/100



Well, it was 1200DKK which is roughly US $200. It was the 6.1  IIRC. 

I've also seen it around ?115 on a German site.



I'd buy that for the bottle alone.

Great review, keep them coming!



Thank you again to /u/HawkI84 for a sample of this malt!

It's extremely sad to hear that Jim McEwan is retiring. Not because I love his malts, more so because I think he needs to work until he dies.

Joking aside (that was a joke?), it's sad to hear because rarely do we see a distillery bring out a whisky and just get the marketing right, all by itself. This is a rare whisky. It's shrouded in mystery, with only Jimbo knowing what's in it.

The outside perfectly matches this ideal. It looks to be something you'd be excited to see at your weekly Satanic orgy (I know I was). The dark box gives only a little away, along with the rest: It's 22 years old, and we only know that because the Bruichladdich Black Art 3 webpage and bottle says so.

It's aged in casks from "many different nations", leading us to imagine sherry, port, bourbon, red wine, brandy, gin, and many more, yet never gives anything else away.

I'm a marketer. I like to believe I'm not drawn in by things like this, because I understand them. However even I, the stalwart amaze-balls marketer, can't help but be wowed by this whisky.

And I haven't even had it yet! Yes folks, this is the Matrix of Whisky (not the sequels): It leaves you wondering and wanting more.

So let's see how this enigma wrapped in a riddle, burritoed into a labyrinth tastes, shall we?

Price: No longer available at the LCBO

Region: Islay

Abv: 48.7%

Age: 22 years

Colour: 10R 3/6

Nose: Strawberry-rhubarb crumble, iodine, plum, caramel, ginger, papaya, linseed oil, cooked oranges

There's definitely some sherry influence here, however this isn't just a sherry bomb. It's actually quite balanced and subtle. Takes awhile to pull at the different elements, and they keep coming.

I haven't remembered the smell of linseed oil since art class. That's weird.

Taste: Rhubarb, caramel, salty, ginger, liquorice, cruller doughnut, whipped cream, mango juice

Again, it's not blasting out flavours, it's balancing them and sending them all at you at once. Think legion rather than juggernaut.

Takes awhile, again, to really pick it all apart. I know I enjoy this. Just not how much.

Finish: Smoke, currant, papaya, dry, lime zest, gooseberry, butter, candied ginger, apple juice

Again, complex. The finish makes you realize the taste is just okay in comparison. And also has some flavours I had trouble identifying.

Conclusion: It's been a long time since I've had a whisky that I didn't think I could review properly. And while it may be stress on my life, the bottle opening during transit, or perhaps I'm just still too new to reviewing, I feel like there's gaps in this whisky.

Ignoring the above, this has an amazing finish. And the finish made me realize the taste was just okay, and that's odd. The nose was again, unique, yet the finish out does it. And no memories are sent up, even though they should because a lot of the tastes I did get were like baking with my Grandma.

So I'm at a little bit of a problem. I believed this was amazing before trying it, yet after trying it think it's interesting, complex, and unique... yet not all at the same time. I think there's gaps that keep it from being much higher. So I give it the score I give it, and hope that when I crack the bottle of 4, it'll be better.

But we'll have to see. In the meantime, I'll be on the hunt for samples of 1 and 2.

85/100

Scotch review #312, Islay review #68, Whisky network review #462

Other Bruichladdich reviews

BR 5 - Elements of Islay

Bruichladdich 10 year - The Laddie Ten

Bruichladdich 15 year Old

Bruichladdich 16 year old First Growth Cuv?e A: Pauillac (Chateau Lafite)

Bruichladdich 35 year Douglas Laing Old Malt Cask

Bruichladdich DNA 4th Edition MCMLXXXV

Bruichladdich Octomore 03.1

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte An Turas Mor

Bruichladdich Resurrection 2001

Bruichladdich Bere Barley 2006



This is exactly why I love Black Art. It's fucking weird, and all over the place, and doesn't really work. But it works so poorly that it kind of does work. Love it.

You may enjoy BA4 much more, but personally it's my least favorite. It's basically a very oaky big sherry bomb with far less diversity and haphazardness. Great whisky but I wouldn't really call it "Black Art" worthy.



is the terrible Rum Cask 17. Blech.

Yup I'm sure you and I have agreed on this one before. Just rubbish. But one out of 500 ain't too bad!



It's fucking weird, and all over the place, and doesn't really work. But it works so poorly that it kind of does work. Love it.

Probably the best articulation of my thoughts with Black Art. It's because of this that I don't mind the idea of spending $100~ on one, but for the asking price of BA3 here now being $350 (and the shitty distributor refuse to stock BA4 until their 20 million bottles of BA3 are all sold out) it's a no go. Lots of really great wine finished whisky out there that doesn't need all the 'mystique' and marketing nonsense to go along with it.



I can see that. And I really would like to try the second edition at some point (it's on one of my lists). 

I may enjoy BA4 more, like you said. Or perhaps I'm now hooked and BA3 has ruined me for life, like the explanation of Like a Virgin in Reservoir Dogs.



Think legion rather than juggernaut.

This is such a delicious turn of phrase.



It's extremely sad to hear that Jim McEwan is retiring. Not because I love his malts, more so because I think he needs to work until he dies.

Yeah, where's the dedication?



Seriously. Back in my day, you found an ancient pool that made you live forever and worked until you turned to ash, only then ceding your daughter and all of your assassin's guild to your greatest adversary as a show of respect.

Wait... I'm not Ras ah Ghul. Damn cold medication.



this is such a clusterfuck of a review in the best way possible. 

I don't think I've seen such a broad range of notes on a whisky review. sounds truly fascinating. 



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.79   

Standard Deviation = 10.36

Skewness = -2.75616 

Kurtosis = 11.12285

Median = 80

IQR = 9
