I was bought a bottle of this for Christmas.  There aren't many organic single malt Scotches around- indeed, the only other I've tried is Benromach.  So, for all of you whisky lovers who want a dram a hippy would buy, here's my thoughts on this one...

Colour  Pale, straw-like

Nose Vanilla, sweetened quark.

Mouth feel  Light and not very oily, moderate burn.

Taste  Sort of sickly without being hugely sweet, though sweeter than most non-coastal whiskies.  Mild malts, and a dominance of that cloying vanilla- it's almost un-whisky like.  There's a bit of freshness hidden behind, meadow-like with grass and clover.  Significant notes of almost raw malt, like the sticky extract homebrewers make beer from.  Somewhat immature.

Verdict   I really wouldn't buy this again, the overpowering vanilla makes it like drinking a gone off yoghurt.  Many cheap bottles give me greater satisfaction than this, even stuff like Jameson's.  It's just plain peculiar and borderline unpleasant.  I don't know what it's like for value (the bottle having been a present), but if you really want organic, buy Benromach

60/100



Good evening Scotchit.  Ziggy here with another review, this time from eclectic but perennially excellent Bruichladdich.  It's past time I did my first review of this distillery!

Bruichladdich Organic - 46% ABV - CAD$60

Colour: Amber -3

Nose: Sweet and tangy lemon, honey lozenge, honeydew melon, kiwi, toffee, vanilla.  Water brings out more sweet honey and light fruits.

Taste: Incredibly velvety and light.  Crisp malt, white and black pepper, lemon, mild grassy peat. Water emphasizes the pepper and hides the lemon.

Finish: Short, but it's a jolt of cracked pepper spiciness and bitter lemon, fading into grass.

Score: 1 + 29 + 29 + 25 =

84 / 100

Thoughts: As you can tell by the photo, this is a miniature bottle, just 200ml.  Back in May for World Whisky Day, Bruichladdich held a contest for whisky related songs.  Being from Atlantic Canada, I naturally chose Barrett's Privateers by Canadian folk legend Stan Rogers.  I was among the 24 winners who each received a "Wee Laddie" of the Organic.

Except it didn't arrive.  After a couple months, I contacted Bruichladdich again, and arranged to have it shipped to my father, who was on vacation in the UK.  So if you're reading this, thank you Bruichladdich!

I was very pleasantly surprised by this scotch.  Very easy to drink for 46% ABV.  The flavours really jump out at you.

Edit: Bruichladdich likes to be a bit dramatic with their tasting notes.  The "mood" notes on this one are, well...erotic, I guess? "Mischievous. Coy, flirtatious, Lolita. A breast-surging, bodice ripper: breathlessly virtuous."

Edit #2: Bruichladdich posted a little blurb about this review and the World Whisky Day competition where I won this bottle.  Read all about it!



Great review.

Also I got to see the Irish Descendants sing Barrett's Privateers live at a bar in Newfoundland. Amazing song.



Most people with that many young laddies in their homes end up getting arrested ;-)

Great reviews!



Quebec eh? 

check out /r/canadawhisky

also, the LCBO is going to be out of 6.1 soon too... i'm so indecisive... $200 is steep



haha it's pretty new! i set it up when the post about making regional sub-reddits happened. 

we have an automated monthly round-up too that pulls in posts by Canadian members from across the whisky network.. you just have to add yourself to it... check out the thread. 

I only know of two QC members on the sub including yourself, though about 10 of the members are unaccounted for. add your location to your flair and other QC or eastern ON folks will be able to find you and set up swaps/meet-ups.



Every summer the family gets together and goes camping and waterskiing at a lake in the middle of nowhere, Idaho.  Generally we tend to have a few bottles of scotch (read: many bottles of scotch), but the family tends to be conservative and stay with bottles that everyone knows that everyone else will like.  Occasionally we'll all try something new, and this time, we had 5 bottles that we'd never tried before.  Sorry for the fact that they'll be brief, but I was usually doing something else while jotting down notes.  Without further ado, they are:  

Longmorn 16
* Color:  Deep Gold
* Nose:  Fruity and Honey, some oak and grassy notes as well.
* Palate:  Starts light and grows powerful the longer it's in your mouth. Reminds me of cereal, with some vanilla as well.
* Finish: Peppery, the cereal flavor (maybe it's oats?) carries for a bit here, and some sort of citrus fruit.
*  Price: $ 100 (California) - thought I didn't buy it
*  Rating: 85/100
*  48% ABV    

Bruichladdich "The Organic"   

GlenDronach 12 (Not pictured, because for some reason I didn't take a picture, and I'm the one who brought it)
* Color:  Amber
* Nose:  Raisins, Grapes, and Nuts.  Some spices as well.
* Palate:  Sherry, fruits, and nuts as well.  Seems a little underwhelming compared to the 15.
* Finish: Medium length, I get the oak and the raisins again.  Feels nice, but I think subconsciously I'm comparing it to the 15 and it does not stack up.
* Price: $50 (California)
* Rating: 84/100
* 43% ABV   

Compass Box Spice Tree
* Color: Amber
* Nose:  Sherry and Spices (I guess it better with that name).  I get some nutmeg and clove, along with a hint of vanilla.
* Palate:  Light and weak. Vanilla, oak, and chocolate.  Kind of disappointing after the nose.
* Finish: Long finish with the spices coming to the forefront.  Almost makes up for the palate... almost.
* Price: $60 (California)
* Rating: 83/100
* 46% ABV     

Old Pulteney 12 (Also forgot to take a picture, but had a bottle at home)    



Very nice spread of reviews! That's a shame that the Organic seems to have fallen a little flat. I agree with the spice tree review I had a chance at a friends bottle and it was meh 

They should have kept the staves in. 



Hello scotchit! Today i'm reviewing Bruichladdich The Organic Scottish Barley. As the name implies, this is made with organic Scottish barley. It's aged in american oak. On to the review. Slainte!  

Bruichladdich The Organic Scottish Barley
50% ABV, NCF, NC, NAS, 60 ml sample  

Appearance Straw gold     

Nose Fresh apples, lemon zest, candied lemon peel, salty sea air, white wine, wet oak.
Decent, let's see if it gets better.   

Palate Sour green apples, canned pears, cheap white wine.
Not very enjoyable.  

Finish Tart apples and dry white wine. Long.
Really dry and somewhat sour, not very enjoyable.  

This feels very young all the way through. The nose started out decent, it sadly didn't improve after that. I'd say this is drinkable, but not much more than that.

Overall, 55/100

Buy again? Never.



Thank you, finally someone who agrees with me...

Every Bruichladdich I've tried has been very mediocre.



I recently bought a load of laddie entry-level-ish samples after a I was blown away by how good the stuff at the distillery was. 

I was horrifically disappointed by everything (organic, bere barley, scottish barley, islay barley I think) except the laddie 10. Which was amazing. Going to upload the reviews eventually but cba. 

Anyway, I now want to try the 16 and curvee which sound much better.



No this is the "new" laddie.

I recently tried it blind side by side with the Laddie 10 and it's a good whisky. I still like the Laddie 10 better, water down to 46% ABV it becomes really flat and the asking price is way to high (same ass Lagavulin 16 or Glendronach 15 here in Germany) BUT it's a decent whisky.



Jim McEwan may have more pride in Scotland than William Wallace. This whisky could be seen as an extension of that pride - a young, fresh whisky, with minimal influence from peat, cask type, or ageing, designed to showcase the barley from the three Scottish farms prominently featured on the label (Mid Coul, Coulmore, and Tullibardine).

It seems that Bruichladdich does three different types of limited releases. The first type is when they find a couple of brilliant casks sitting in a dark corner left over from the previous owners (the Still releases, DNA, etc). The second type is when McEwan gets a hold of some interesting/unusual casks - Bordeaux, rum, brandy, anything else he can get his hands on - and throw some old whisky in there to see what happens (the Cuvee line, as well as countless other strange finishes that used to pop up over the last few years). The final is when they?re trialing a new product line, and are testing the waters with the intention to perfect the process before making it a staple expression.

From some light reading, I gather that this was the final type. The second of two limited releases, before The Organic Scottish Barley made its way into Bruichladdich?s core lineup. I?ve tasted the Organic Scottish Barley and quite enjoyed it. How does this earlier incarnation compare?

Bruichladdich Organic 2010 Multi-Vintage. Islay single malt, distilled from organic Chalice barley, matured in bourbon casks and bottled at 46% ABV.

Nose: Light and floral. Lemon peel citrus meets new oak. Some time in the glass opens up contrasting cereal and earthy characteristics, with shortbread and digestive biscuits in the former, and rain-soaked topsoil in the latter.

Palate: Citrus rind entry, body beginning at a relaxed medium, before gradually developing towards medium-full. Citrus notes move towards a juicy passionfruit flesh acidity, and the addition of spicy dried apricot and rockmelon. Slight note of salty deli if held on the palate long enough.

Finish: Wood smoke immediately on arrival, continuation of the salty meats, and a hint of damp, earthy peat. Doesn?t taste like a classic peated whisky, but would likely make Biomortis retch, if that?s any indication. Creamy nuttiness on the tail, particularly natural almonds and walnuts. Medium length.

One of my least favourite Bruichladdichs, and not up to the level of the Organic Scottish Barley, nor the rest of their unpeated core lineup. Still a great whisky - tasty, interesting, and no real off-notes. Just didn?t floor me - something I?ve become accustomed to with this distillery.

My experiences so far suggest that a bad Bruichladdich is like a bad Nick Cave album. Not truly "bad", perfectly enjoyable, and likely preferable to other alternatives on offer.

80/100



Each to their own. While it's not their best, I found nothing off-putting about this. 

Mine was a gift, so maybe I'm less sour since it didn't cost me anything.



Review dump Day 4.. THE DUMPENING. Review 20-23

Bruichladdich The Laddie Ten

Lovely non peated dram.

Bruichladdich Bere Barley 2006

Good to put on ice-cream but that?s about it. This might not taste like shit if I hadn?t tried the 10 first. 

Bruichladdich The Organic

A bit too sickly, and the nose is vile? 

Bruichladdich Islay Barley 2007

Better than the organic, but nothing on the 10.



Wow Ive had bottles of all 3 and absolutely loved them all.  The barely and organic ones are quite different from the laddie 10 for sure.

I love the wheatyness of the barley lines when I'm looking for that. 



Review dump Day 4.. THE DUMPENING. Review 20-23

Bruichladdich The Laddie Ten

Lovely non peated dram.

Bruichladdich Bere Barley 2006

Good to put on ice-cream but that?s about it. This might not taste like shit if I hadn?t tried the 10 first. 

Bruichladdich The Organic

A bit too sickly, and the nose is vile? 

Bruichladdich Islay Barley 2007

Better than the organic, but nothing on the 10.



Wow Ive had bottles of all 3 and absolutely loved them all.  The barely and organic ones are quite different from the laddie 10 for sure.

I love the wheatyness of the barley lines when I'm looking for that. 



Time to check another overdue dram off the sample queue! I got this sample from /u/nonmagnetic awhile back. I like the now-discontinued Bruichladdich The Laddie Ten and I think this and/or Bruichladdich Scottish Barley filled in to take it's place. Neither has an age statement (right?) but both are a respectable 46% and NCF (again...right? I didn't really research them).

Let's see how this one holds up as a successor to the late Laddie Ten. 

Bruichladdich The Organic

Strength: 46%

Color: Very pale.

Nose: Bruichladdich funk, brine, floral notes, and some sweet and light malt. It gets a little vegetal, with green pepper.

Palate: The palate is a little thin, but it's got a nice array of flavors: sweet malt, citrus, and sea salt. 

Finish: Lemony and floral, with some malt that holds out for a bit. 

Summary: It's a pretty tasty and simple dram, very similar to the Laddie Ten but I don't think it is quite as good. Bruichladdich is generally very solid, and this is another nice single malt. Definitely a nice sipping dram if you want some brine without much peat. 

Score: 86/100 

Scotch Review #112

Whisky Review #226

/u/review_bot 'Bruichladdich'



LetThereBeR0ck's latest Bruichladdich reviews:

Hey I'm a bot! Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire.



Blind sample tasting coming to me from /u/nonmagnetic, along with a ton of other Bruichladdich. Thanks! Tasting notes in italics are added after the blind taste.

I was on a Bruichladdich kick, so this one got pulled out of the sample box right on time. The flavor profile from Bruichladdich has been right up my alley so far, a very interesting mix of fruit and earthiness that makes their whiskeys quite a pour. 

?

Bruichladdich ? The Organic 46%

?

Average score to date: 81.9

?

Not a bad dram, but not spectacular either. I could tell this was going to be a Bruichladdich, but based on the color and nose I thought it was going to be Laddie 10 at first. It turned out to be the Organic, which I could tell on the palate and finish. I don?t recall the 10 having that cigar-smoke finish, so I thought that was an interesting note in the Organic.

?

Question for y?all ? I?m having trouble keeping the palate and finish notes separate since most of the flavors don?t come through until the finish anyway. Should I focus my palate notes on the feel of the whiskey on the palate more than the flavor notes and break it up that way?