Review # 120

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte 7 61% Swap Texacer - Thank you Sir!

Color:  Amber + 1.5, Apple Juice, Slow Wide Tears and Legs.

Nose:  Earthy Peat, Smoke Sea Air and Mist, Salt, Linen Cloth, Rich Toffee, Brown Sugar, Butter, Cardboard, Iodine, Anise Seed, Nutmeg, White Pepper, Bacon.

Mouth Feel:  Rich and Oily, Spicy but a bit Sour for 61%

Taste:  Rich Brown Sugar, Toffee, Iodine, Peat Smoke, Red Pepper, Salty Seafood, Pork Chop, Butter, Overripe Red Apple, More Smoke, Burnt Grass, Scorched Sugar.

Finish:  Red and Black Pepper, Smoke and Iodine coat the tongue, Olive Oil, Tar and  Ash, Hint of Leather, and Burnt Rope.  A long Warm Finish.

With Water:  Nose:  Sweeter, Spice and Iodine are tamed, Rich, Brown Sugar, Cinnamon and Vanilla Pop Out, Honey, Cinnamon, More Tree Fruit: Apple / Pear.  Smoke is back in, Beach Bonfire, Brown Rice.
Taste:  Black Pepper, Scorched Caramel, Aluminum, Grapefruit Zest and Oil, Cinnamon Oil, Dried Vegetal - highly decayed.

Score:  Nose:  24,  Taste:  23,  Finish:  24,  Balance:  24,   Total: 95

A rich, oily whisky with intense Islay elements.  For sure the most interesting Bruichladdich I have had to date, and I have had a couple.  This one tastes of a true Islay whisky, strong peaty, salty, almost a meal in a glass.  This would be a wonderful winter dram.



The Port Charlotte, or simply PC, range of whisky are somewhat heavily-peated whiskies produced at the Bruichladdich distillery on Islay. PC's I believe are distilled from barley that was peated to around 40 ppm. This differentiates PC from standard, nominally unpeated Bruichladdich whisky and the ultra-peated Octomore, which has uses barley peated to upwards of 140 ppm. Anyway, Port Charlotte releases began with the PC5 five year old, at full cask strength. Although we are now at the 10 year mark for PC releases, here is a review of PC7. I tend to like my peated whiskies from Islay rather young, since the intensity of the peat is preserved, so this could turn out to be a winner.

PORT CHARLOTTE PC 7

Color: Amber +2 (no caramel, the Laddie 10 proved that Bruichladdich can source active casks)

ABV: 61%

Aroma Neat:

Peat, Charred Wood, Overripe Bosc Pears, Brown Apples, Coal Smoke/Dust, Wood Smoke, Ash, Raw Honey,  Bee's Wax, Bacon, Charred/Smoked Meat, Paprika (very nice), Black Pepper, Cumin, Old Sawdust, Talcum, Creamy Malt, Salty Butter. 

Reminiscent of the Legaig 10, with respect to old fruits, but also the Longrow 10, with respect to a dirty, industrial/coal character. Still, this whisky remains distinctly Islay with greater phenolic content and maritime character. As one may expect, there's a meaty/barbecue side to this dram as well. Not at all hot, despite the proof.

Aroma Water:

Creamy Malt, Bananas Foster, Rum, Vanilla, Pure Honey, Pepper, Barley Grist, Salty Seaweed, Brine, Caramel (slight), Black Pepper, Browned Apples, Cumin, Peat, Creamed Butter, Charred Wood, Molasses (slight).

Sweet notes begin to emerge with water, though the nose doesn't become sweet overall. Bruichladdich character is more evident now. Peat and meat retreat.

Taste Neat:

Dry Peat, Creamy Malt, Dusty Ground Pepper, Wood Ash, Fireplace Cinders, Dried Apples, Dried Bananas, Tinned Fruits (slightly off, like Ledaig), Seaweed, Salty Brine (slight).

Hugely, hugely flavorful and dry as a bone. Decadently thick mouthfeel is an added bonus (no chill filtration here). It's pretty much my ideal peaty style dram. It's scary, but this drinks very well at 61%. Be careful people!

Taste Water:

Dry Peat, Black Pepper Corns, Spicy Oak, Barrel Char, Ash Tray/Fireplace Cinders, Apples, Salty Lemon,  Bacon/Grease, Grape Seeds (bitter).

Wood is much more noticeable with water. As with the nose, the peat pulls back a bit with water and allows some other elements to articulate themselves. I don't know how scotch whisky does it, but it can make notes like Ash Tray delicious. Magic.

Finish:

Dry Peat, Dusty Pepper, Stale Ash (cigarette ash), Salty Lemon (more salt than lemon), Grapefruit (bitter), Barley Grist.

Long lasting and very dry.

Conclusion:

Complex and characterful nose, which shows great depth and takes water for days.

Powerful, coating, demandingly dry palate which also reveals layer after layer with varying amounts of water and time in the glass.

Long, complex, and dry finish which transcends its years. Tasted blind, I'd never guess this was seven year old whisky.

Rating: 91/100

Bruichladdich has drawn some criticism from some malt enthusiasts for it's large range of whiskies, with a plethora of finishes or other gimmicks. That said, most everything I've had from Bruichladdich since Jim McEwan took over (around eleven years ago) I've liked. There are a lot of releases I haven't tried, but I think the new distillate is simply excellent. Port Charlotte and The Laddie 10 both shine at relatively young ages for scotch whisky. Some may balk at paying 100 or so USD for these young PC whisky, but given the fact that these are cask strength spirits with immense character and intrinsic quality, I'd say that the cost of admission is fair. If your tastes are similar to mine, PC drams are practically a bargain!

Josh

blog



I appreciate that!

Glad to find another bruichladdich fan!



I appreciate that very much, cheers!

I hope you can try some PC someday too and any other drams you might fancy!



Intro: I was told by the bartender, who is planning an Islay trip, that 70% of Bruichaddich production goes to the Rocks offering. He also recommended a pairing with Lion Stout from Sri Lanka, the only beer endorsed by Micheal Jackson. I never checked up on any of that but I am repeating it.  

This is: A peaty Islay from the aforementioned Bruichladdich, aged for 7 years in both ex bourbon and sherry casks, and bottled at 61%, ABV. $130.  

Color: Amber with legs.  

Nose: POW! Alcohol, wild berry, lavender, sawdust, clay, dill, and peat.  

Dram: Bites. Raw veggies and peat, squash, corn, jalapeno, tar, black Sharpee, and wormwood. Bitter.  

Finish: Chlorine, menthol, more tar, corn husk, cherry, sport peppers, boiled peat? Cognac? Numbing.  

Conclusions: A lot going on. Not all of it good, but a real explosion of flavor. Reminds me of a strong Bowmore 15. 84/100  

Happy Memorial Day!



It?s been a while since I?ve reviewed anything Scotchit, and since I haven?t found any Springbank 10 around the traps to join in for the upcoming community review, I thought I?d better review something. 

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte PC7. Islay Single Malt, aged 7 years in American oak barrels, bottled at cask strength 61% ABV. Non chill-filtered, no added colouring. Paid $125 for 700mL.

Nose: Salty smoked meats; leg ham and salmon. Earthy peat and briney saltwater very dominating, but there?s some subtle sweetness lurking in the shadows, with a deep sniff bringing out oaky vanilla, with some slight honey and floral notes. With water, the sweeter notes are brought out and the earthiness subdued.

Palate: The salty brine and the sweet vanilla in delicious balance in an oily texture. There?s an incredibly complex, rich array of flavours on offer here but unfortunately at cask strength, I can?t hold it in my mouth long enough to chase them before the alcohol burns out the roof of my mouth. (Dilution only mutes the complexity unfortunately.)

Finish: Immediate smoke. Warm cracked pepper sitting in the back, while some subtle creamy peat lies at the front of the tongue. More smoky pig meats. Tobacco. It dries out fairly quickly but a lot of the earthy flavours keep lingering in the distance.

Oh wow. This is my first experience with Bruicladdich, and they have made a tremendous first impression. This is marvellous stuff, and I can?t wait to further explore their collection. (I?m already saving up to order a few different bottles direct, as they?re unfortunately rather difficult to find in Australia.)

93/100 



Port Charlotte PC7 - 61%, $150 

Nose: Strong bacon smoke, buttery peat, malt, sugar sweetness, faint wine. 

Taste: Strong earthy peat, dirty, buttered burnt toast, campfire smoke, spicy, slightly winey, slight malt. Full mouthfeel. 

Finish: The earthy fades and the smoke holds, buttery notes hold as well. The malt is stronger towards the end. Medium length. 

Notes: The is really great! The creamy buttery peat is something amazing. Bruichladdich really hit something here with the PC line, and I love it.  

89/100 



This stuff is just awesome, nice review.  

I've been pining for it ever since I killed my bottle. 



Greetings Scotchit! A pair of mystery drams from /u/Scotch_Fanatic arrived a few days ago. Here we go...

Scotch_Fanatic Mini-Mystery Scotch
Octomore 2.2 Orpheus
???

Nose: Almost certainly peat. Warm, musky. Citrus, lemon. Oak. Hay. Lightly bitter. Mineralic.

I'm thinking Ardbeg or Caol Ila. Probably an independent bottling of either. Hmm, maybe a Kilchoman?

Taste: Probably not CS. Smooth, malty. Peaty? Citrus. Lightly bitter oak. Vanilla. 

I'm getting a real Kilchoman vibe from this. Bourbon cask, definitely. Peated, definitely. Maybe CS, maybe 48%. 

Finish: Lengthy. Mineralic. Musty. Peat. Malt. Creamy. Citrus. 

Definitely a Kilchoman type of vibe. 

Summary: I'm thinking this is a Kilchoman single bourbon cask. I don't know if that's true, but that's what I think it is. Actually, on second thought, I know what this is: Kilchoman Original Cask Strength. It explains the taste, it explains the miniature sample. 

And damn, if it is, I need to get some bottles stat. This stuff is really good, good enough that I'm going to buy a few bottles as soon as I find it. Thanks for the sample, /u/Scotch_Fanatic!

Score: 90/100
Excellent.

Most Similar To: Kilchoman Machir Bay, Kilchoman Single Bourbon Cask, Ardbeg 10.

Buy Again? Yes, several bottles.

Scotch_Fanatic Mystery Sample (Computer, 7)
Port Charlotte PC7
???

Nose: Immediately grassy, decaying. Sour, cranberry. Quite a bit of burn. Bitter oak. Soft French oak. Vanilla. 

Hmm... This is probably CS. However, I'm not enjoying these notes much - the grassiness reminds me of Tobermory. With time, they largely fade away and it's much nicer. 

Taste: Probably CS. Sweet apricot. Dry wineyness. French oak. Charcoal. Slight bitterness. Dry barley. Slight grassiness.

Almost a dusty barley type of note. Thinking refill sherry or French oak cask. 

Finish: Medium length. Dry oak. Barley. Musty. Winey. More grassiness. Ashiness. 

Quite decent, really. Rather drying throughout, though.

Summary: I'm not sure where this is from, but I'm kind of guessing this is a Mortlach. It could be something else, of course, but Mortlach was my first instinct. Tobermory is also a possibility, but I don't think /u/Scotch_Fanatic would be that mean to me.

So, guesses:

refill sherry cask

independent bottling

cask strength

maybe Mortlach, maybe some unknown Speyside distillery

15-20 years old

I don't think it's particularly great, though - those grassy notes are really not my thing, and overall it's just a bit too dry for me. Thanks for the dram regardless, this one's identity is rather intriguing.

Score: 77/100
Meh.

Most Similar To: Mortlach 20 Signatory CS, Tobermory 10

Buy Again? No.



Great reviews!  

I'm so so sorry. You can never buy many bottles of the first one... Because it's: Brucihladdich Octomore 2.2 Orpheus. It's ~350? per bottle. It makes me fucking sad.

The other one is also a bruichladdich produced whisky. The label should be plenty to figure that one out.
Hints:  



I'm almost out of my first bottle. =(

But yeah, I'll see about sending you some of that too. 

The funny thing about the 1989 is that auction sites are actually selling it for roughly the same that I paid. I love it, since the bottle flippers are actually losing money. 



Chuckles. It's hard to make real profits through auction sites, with both a 10% buyers and sellers fee. Not to mention shipping fees and all that. 

I'll be looking forward to the samples! I've been missing old Laphroaig in my life. 



Bruichladdich PC 7, 61% ABV

Nose: Sweet peat and salted caramel. Honey roasted nuts. Cured meats and smoked paprika. Faint banana and durian. Sweet, smoky, rich and enticing.

Taste: Warm, oily and viscous. Peaty, meaty and briny. Brown sugar and white pepper. Charred oak and hot spices. UMAMI!

Finish: Earthy peat and tobacco smoke. Honeyed ham and nuts. Anise, thyme and black pepper. Long and awesome.

Beautifully balanced and deliciously rich and smoky, this is everything I hope for in an Islay dram. The nose is intoxicating, the taste is unbelievably delicious, and the finish sticks with you for hours. This is a wonderful whisky;  an absolute pleasure to drink.

95/100

Review #39, thanks for reading.



and durian

So are you saying it smells faintly awful?



So are you saying it smells delicious?

Yes.



Haha, now you're just throwing umami all over the place!

I like this dram a lot too. I've been meaning to pick up the 10 for a while.



Thanks to /u/Ethanized for the sample.  As a huge fan of the PC11 and PC12, I've been wanting to try one of the earlier releases for ages.  So here it is.  Aged in Bourbon casks for 7 years and finished in sherry.  Bottled at cask strength - 61% ABV.

?

Nose:  Sweet peat, strawberries.  Yeasty fresh baked bread.  Sweet sugary cake.

Palate:  Big, rich, and oily.  Similar to an Octomore mouthfeel.  Super peaty and earthy.  Fresh dirt and barnyard.  Very funky.  Prunes, plums, and a hint of expired wine.  Dirty and complex.

Finish:  Long finish.  Layers and layers of smoke.  Herbal earthy smoke and sweeter peatier smoke.  A hint of seaweed as well.

Score: 94/100

?

Fan-fucking-tastic.  I love this stuff.  I poured a dram of PC12 to compare with this, and I found that helped me characterize it better.  Obviously its much younger, so I expected it to just be a peatier and brasher version of the same thing.  And while it was peatier, it wasn't the same thing.   This has some incredibly interesting dirty funky notes that are missing with the PC12.  Its more raw and complex.  The PC12 is a bit more well rounded and a bit saltier.  They both are fantastic, and I can't honestly put one above the other.  Super glad I got to try this and compare them.

?

/u/review_bot 'Charlotte'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Charlotte:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



Warmup was a little PC 10yr 2nd edition: kind of a funky, oaky peat nose; hot and full bodied palate with that beautiful Bruichladdich sweet smoke; finish is warm, with the flavors mingling together. I?ll do a SbS of the 10yr against the standard version later, couldn?t resist doing these two first! Huge thanks to /u/throwboats for the sample of the PC12!

?

Setup was Glencairn, neat, rested 15 minutes. Both were a nice 18k gold color, with the PC12 being just a touch darker? noticeably so, actually.

Bruichladdich PC7 - SIN AN DOIGH ILEACH ? 61%

Bruichladdich PC12 - OILEANACH FURACHAIL ? 58.7%

?

Scoring legend:



What is a pop cap? Just the lid on a glass soda bottle? 

I found the PC7 in a little shop recently. Its around $200; worth buying? I already have a PC12, which was actually cheaper.



I thought that was supposed to be a DNA double-helix. Like a teaser for the "DNA" connection between these two PCs.

Guess not.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with review #98.... wait no its 99.  I was having problems apparently keeping track in my records.  so here is Bruichladdich Port Charlotte 7 year 122 proof.  

delicious.  very similar to the Octomore Series.  Bruichladdich is pinning down their line of malts and this is their smoke/peat malt. I was lucky enough to find this for $70 locally a couple months ago.  very rich stuff and great at such a high proof.  

93/100

next week, review reddit 100 and a recap.  



Great review! Sounds like an interesting nose. 

I'm really looking forward to this. I think I'll buy some 10 YO's when there out to accompany my Laddie 10's!



It was the 10 year old.  It was a one off for Glasgow Whiskey festival.  I think only 150 bottles were produced?  Maybe it was 150 cases?  Anyways, I just got lucky and it was part of a local whisky tasting.

Tasting notes