Port Charlotte An Turas Mor, 46%, Islay

Color - straw gold (amber -1)

Nose -  butter salt, freshly turned fertile soil, maritime air, sweet malts, white pepper, peach cobbler with vanilla ice cream

Taste -  sweet vanilla, campfire smoke, sweet floral, honey, salt and peat, black peppered jerky, light apples

Finish - oak, peppery, salty

Overall:  

Initial whiff of this is huge butter salt. The longer it sits, the butter salt begins moving to the back and the sweetness coming forward.  Initial sweetness on the palate, becoming more bitter.  This is a great taste evolution, sweet to smokey, slightly sweet again, salty peppery meat, and fruits. Delicious.  A medium length finish rounds this one off with fleeing oak and salt/pepper.

88/100



Hi guys. It's been a while since I posted a review. Exams just finished now I have more time for whisky. I'll be reviewing Port Charlotte An Turas Mor. Got this sample from a friend.

ABV: 46%

Color: light Amber

Nose: smokey, peaty, coconut, vanilla, milk, coffee, oak

Taste: smoke, peat, pepper, vanilla, cream, coconut milk, nuts

Finish: smooth, smokey, sweet

Conclusion:  This is quite similar to the PC10 ,which is the only other Port Charlotte I've had so far, except that this is smokier and sweeter.

Score: 85



...more time for whisky.

Hooray!



Another review on the floor from /u/mentel42. Tonight it is getting windy & nasty out, sat down with a couple of Bruichladdich expressions. The Laddie 10, and the Port Charlotte An Turas Mor. I do often drink these two in sequence, as it highlights what the peating process brings. I do go back & forth between the two drams when nosing, though I drank down the Laddie before sipping the An Turas Mor

Listening to some Allman Brothers, The Mountain Jam

Laddie: 10 years old, Unpeated, 46% ABV, Non-Chill Filtered, No Coloring added, $40

An Turas Mor: Heavily Peated, 46% ABV, Non-Chill Filtered, No Coloring added, $70, NAS (I believe this is a vatting of whiskys up to 9-years old, i.e., all the prior Port Charlottes, kind of bringing together the progressive bottlings)

Appeance

Laddie: Honey, tinge of orange. Widely spaced legs

An Turas Mor: Honey, but more yellow, no orange/red tones. Tears are a bit more erratic than the Laddie

Nose

Laddie: Light honey with dry cereal. Just a subtle sweetness, some noticeable alcohol. Dry grapes, butterscotch, mineral notes. On some sniffs there is a smidge of saltiness and must. I find a lot of unpeated whisky to be too sweet and fruity for me, but this I enjoy, more dry than sweet. Returning after smelling the An Turas Mor there are some fruity notes covered by minerals and grain.

An Turas Mor: Sweet ash, honey & white grape juice. If anything it is sweeter than the Laddie, supported very well by the low intensity smoke. Mineral notes more than saltiness, I am constantly surprised by the delicateness, for being ?heavily peated? there is no billowing smoke or salty brine, very ashy, some hints of BBQ in the balance of sweet and smoke

Taste

Laddie: Grains, cereal, honey. Easy to drink, it develops some grape as it sits, a little salt and light caramel, very similar to the nose, including some mineral notes, a background mustiness. It?s unpeated but there is some echo of peat in this, possibly the water source used to cut to proof? Many have hypothesized, I?m only guessing

An Turas Mor: Lighter in flavor than the Laddie, juicy smoke, still very subtle and more ashy remnants than billowing. No strong alcohol flavor. Flavor develops on my tongue a little into the familiar cereal & dry mineral notes from the Laddie. After a couple of sips I get some very lively peppery notes. Not as well balanced between sweet & smoke as the nose, but still very well done. A few sips in I am getting some new floral/herbal notes hiding in the smoke, tarragon & fennel frond?

Finish

Laddie: Grain notes stay prominent, fairly warming and long. Cereal fades through into honey. This is very consistent from nose to finish, my final sip gives a very warm farewell, some odd ghost of peat is in there.

An Turas Mor: Ash and pepper, warm and lingering, stays a bit sweeter than the Laddie

Summary

Laddie: This is amazingly consistent from nose to finish, grains & honey. It is dry enough to balance the sweetness of the malt, a very fine dram. 83/100

An Turas Mor: The nose on this is really something. The peating brings in ashy smoke but it also amps up the sweetness beyond the dry flavors in the Laddie. This dram varies more from nose to finish, the biggest change being different levels of sweetness, as the smoke remains a nice low-level ashy mouthful from start to finish. 86/100

[p.s. - apologies for typos in the posting, deep into the 2nd glass of Bruichladdich...]



Crate & Barrel, my go to for decent non-expensive stuff 

I like the snifters, especially for smoky stuff. though for very high proof spirits they don't always work for me, alcohol smell can get a bit intense



Good evening my friends! Last night I posted a review of the awesome Bruichladdich Octomore 1.1 for your viewing pleasure, and with the interesting discussion found here about our beloved Bruichladdich?s extensive and eclectic lineup, I figured why not launch an all-out Laddy assault at your face? 

So without any more hot air from me, here comes reviews 43-46!

Bruichladdich First Growth Cuvee E (Sauternes), Islay, 46% ABV

Nose: Ripe red fruits, Brown sugar oatmeal. Sea air, summer melon juice.

Palate: Bit of alcohol bite which sets up an amazingly balanced feel, bright spices, dull cabernet, sea salt, tart greek yogurt.

Finish: Succulent and sweet, white pepper, honey, dry oak.

90/100

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte An Turas Mor, Islay, 46% ABV

Nose: Peat, brine, apple cinnamon. Wet laundry, cherry cough syrup. Butter, witch hazel.

Palate: Earthy, peat, red clay. Bitter lemonade made with sea water. Quite floral and oily up front

Finish: Light dry oak, tingling bitternet, whole wheat bread and mustard seed. Peaty ghost.

83/100

Great nose, everything else was pretty average.

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte Peat Project, Islay, 46% ABV, NCF

Nose: Stinging alcohol burn, citrus zest, salt, light peat. Very sharp and distinct notes, they certainly don?t blend together

Palate: Oily and round. Surprisingly silky. Bitter tangerine rind, peat with some slight smoke. Hints of Chinese 5-spice, particularly ginger, white pepper.

Finish: Tangy, wafty smoke, drying. Quite floral in nature, distinct bitterness comes through.

80/100

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte 10 Tro Na Linntean, Islay, 59.8% ABV

Nose: Lemon juice, cranberry juice. Very fresh, crisp peat. Pinesol. Woodshop dust.

Palate: Lemon eclairs. Sultanas, Honey Nut Cheerio?s. Dry champagne. Hay fire, peat.

Finish: Slightly floral, but oily. Juicy fruits? fruity pebble cereal. Honey suckle, light peat smoke. Background turns quite dry, bitter and floral.

90/100

Undeniably Laddy, the kind of release they put out that keeps me coming back for more.

I would like to thanks all of my friends over at /r/scotchswap who made these samples possible!



Port Charlotte An Turas Mor / 46% ABV / $60

tasted neat, w/bottled water

Finally!  A scotch that labels as both E150 free and NCF!  

An Turas Mor means "The Great Journey", a whisky that Jim McEwan finally believes is good enough for the resurrected Port Charlotte distillery to showcase.  Apparently, it's a 2010 multi-vintage vatting peated to 40ppm (yum!) and aged in American Oak.  No age statement.

I really like An Turas Mor!  It's peaty, floral, with the charred-cask BBQ characteristics we love in Ardbeg Alligator, but less in your face and balanced with perfect sweet notes.  My only complaint might be that it's only 46%--which is amazingly better than 43% or 40%--or that there's no notes on what the vattings were that went into making it.  It tastes like a young Kilchoman with the edges rounded off, and I hope Bruichladdich keeps making more of it.  The only thing I can say about this eminently drinkable malt is that it's not nearly as complex as its older, stronger cousins.

Rating: 87/100 

25th review

Homepage | Review | Buy @ Wine-Searcher

Port Charlotte PC8 "Ar Duthchas" / 60.5% ABV / $120

tasted neat, w/bottled water

Massive.  Just look at that ABV!  I like Cask Strength and I canna lie...

This is the older brother, and 8 year old Port Charlotte Expression from Bruichladdich and it's a great sign of what's to come.  It's bottled at Cask Strength, a blistering ~61% ABV that is absolutely wonderful.  You're allowed to add some water to this one; it brings out heather in the nose, leather on the tongue. and more oak/smoke on the finish

I highly recommend this--and the other numbered PC releases, as they are great.

Rating: 94/100 

26th review

Homepage | Review | Buy @ Wine-Searcher



Greetings Scotchit! My last review, the Lagavulin 12 head-to-head, got some decent feedback and I happened to have a similar situation here, so I present to you: the Port Charlotte head-to-head!

I believe the An Turas Mor is 2010's Port Charlotte release, and The Peat Project is 2011 and onwards (I think it's entering the main lineup). Both are NAS, unchillfiltered, natural colour and bottled at 46%, both are peated to 44 ppm, so the only difference is literally which casks were batched.

So that's the intro, let's see the reviews!

Review #45: Port Charlotte An Turas Mor
Islay, 46% ABV, NAS, nonchillfiltered, natural colour, 50ml sample courtesy of glinsvad

Nose: dry white wine, sour grapes, subdued peat, herbal, slight peaches

The nose is a lot like a white wine - it's mainly dry and sour, yeasty. There's a bit of herbal note in there, but I couldn't identify what exactly it is - maybe one of those ones no one knows how to use. Tarragon, for example. Overall, it's a lot like Ardbeg 10, in that it's peaty, but also winey and dry.

Taste: soft and silky mouthfeel, lots of vanilla, double cream, pound cake, turns dry, restrained peat smoke, salt and pepper

Whoa, didn't call that. That's delicious. Amazingly smooth and filling mouthfeel, incredibly pleasant on the tongue. A lot sweeter at first, like taking a bite out of a pound cake and letting it melt on your mouth. Over time, it shifts from that sweetness to become almost meaty, like a grilled pepper steak. 

Finish: quite long, dry, peat, vanilla, sour grapefruit, prickly black pepper and salt

A very consistent transition out of the taste. Over time, goes drier and sour, with meaty salt and pepper notes along with the peat. It's definitely not the main event here, but it's not bad.

Summary: Well, that's a lot better than I expected. Most Bruichladdichs I find unpleasantly sour and yeasty, and that's definitely present on the nose, but the taste is unlike anything I've had from them. It's really rather good.

I get that sourness in the nose in every Bruichladdich whisky, and my pet theory is that it occurs because they let the wort ferment for 55 hours, which is longer than most distilleries on Islay. More sugar gets converted to alcohol, leaving the wort less sweet and more yeasty, which affects the new make.

This is a really challenging whisky to score, or even rank. It's complex, and it's not really a daily dram, but it oozes quality. It doesn't hold a candle to the best Islays I've tried, but it's comparable to many of them.

Score: 83/100
Between Ardbeg 10 and Laphroaig 10.

Review #46: Port Charlotte The Peat Project
Islay, 46% ABV, NAS, nonchillfiltered, natural colour, ?45 for 700ml at Bruichladdich distillery

Nose: dry white wine, sour yeast, peat smoke, pickle juice, cinnamon

Overwhelmingly dry, salty and sour. Not a rich, warm peat smoke, but rather like cold smoked salmon. It's very Bruichladdich, which means I'm not really a fan. 

Taste: tangy sweet citrus, sweet peaches, wave of sour citrus, vanilla, honey, bitter, peat smoke, mild brine

A really strange development. Starts out very, very sweet, then there's a wave of sour citrus that wipes the sweetness away, but it creeps back in. Peat is definitely not the main event here - much less so than in the An Turas Mor. Sweet and sour throughout.

Finish: long in length, sour citrus, sweet malt, vanilla, dry peat

Sweet and sour, again. Vanilla sweetness gives way to citrus and dry (not bitter) peat. 

Summary: Again, this is very much like the An Turas Mor, but in a lot of ways worse. The nose is yeasty and not very pleasant, and the palate is entirely different but not as strong as the An Turas Mor. Here, though, it's not as balanced. Too sour. I don't like this as much, which is a shame, because this is the one I have a bottle of.

Score: 75/100
OK, but wouldn't buy it again.

So there you have it - one pretty good, one just decent. 

I believe the An Turas Mor is pretty much sold out by now, but that was a quality dram. I'd be interested in trying the Port Charlotte 10 or some of the PC releases (ScotchSwap, anyone?), but the bottle I have I'm not that big a fan of, unfortunately.



Well, see, I dunno. It's a tough one. It's definitely good, but the nose is a let down. If it was in line with the palate and finish, it'd score 5 more points easy.

I liked it, but it wasn't in the same ballpark as Laphroaig 10 CS, Uigeadail or Lagavulin 12 (2011). Then I got down to comparing it to Laphroaig 10. I like that more than the An Turas Mor, but I like the ATM more than the Ardbeg 10.

So yeah, I'd rather just rank them than score them, but I've already scored the others.



I see. Thanks for clearing that up. As I see it if it ranks between Laphroaig 10 and Ardbeg 10 then it must be a pretty decent malt.

Also, I was mistaking this with the expensive lines of Port Charlotte (7, 8, 9, etc.) that's why I was saying it should be better than the peat project. I'm sorry I had you rambling a bit. The inconsistencies in the nose, taste, and finish of ATM must be the variation in quality from the various vintages from which its made.



Port Charlotte An Turas Mor, 46% ABV

Thanks to cleric04 for the sample!

Nose: Peat, seaspray and potpourri. Cured meats and butterscotch. Vanilla, pepper, cinnamon and bay leaves. Faint citrus and fruits.

Taste: Very smooth and a little oily. Floral honey and bacon fat. Earthy peat, salted nuts and dry herbs. Black pepper, nutmeg and stewed fruits.

Finish: White pepper, aniseed, sea salt and brown sugar. Faint medicinal notes. Short to medium and fleeting.

Very smooth, mellow and easy to drink, with a bit of spice in the middle. Great nose, good taste, weak finish. 

Nice dram, but not even close to the PC7. 

83/100

Review #66, thanks for reading.



I have a bottle of this stuff and have really appreciated the amount of peat in the flavor, but how does this compare to the Laphroaig 10 and QC? I have been a bit hesitant to buy a bottle since I won't be able to try it out before I buy a full bottle and most people say that Laphroaig is the ultimate (commonly available) peat bomb. 

I also love my laga 16, if that plays into it. 

And great review! I'll save it for later and see if I can pick up the same notes you have. 



Welcome to this PC faceoff! In the left corner, we have PC An Turas Mor, coming to the arena by way of /u/VulgarDisplayOfStuff! In the right corner, we have PC 10yr, coming to the arena by way of /u/Johnysteaks! Gentlemen, thank you for your contributions.

Per the usual, the sample was tasted blind initially, with notes in italics added during the second (revealed) tasting if I found anything important.

?

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte 10yr Peated ? 46%

?

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte ? An Turas Mor ? 46%

?

Average score to date: 83

?

So I did enjoy the PC10 more than the Scottish Barley ? I really liked that cigar leaf flavor, it complements the fruit profile really well. The ATM was a little bit of a disappointment, as it was too lightly peated and a bit too sweet for my palate as it stands. Both are otherwise fine whiskeys. My scores for them falls just about in line with my preferences: PC10 > Scottish Barley  > An Turas Mor.



Good call on the PC10.  I'd give a 3/5 as well.  I noticed the cigar a bit more notably but I smoke enough to care.  :)

Good comparison.



That's not actually the PC10 release though, it's just the standard 10 year old release:  

http://www.bruichladdich.com/the-whisky/port-charlotte/pc10



Port Charlotte PC10 isn't the same as Port Charlotte 10yo. Based on the price you mentioned and image you used, I guess you tasted the 10yo?

In terms of sweetness, how did the two relate? I found the An Turas Mor a little too sweet, but the 10yo is still on my wishlist.

You should also try PC Islay Barley, btw. Better than the Scottish Barley, imho.



That's correct, I had the 10 yr. Unfortunately the post title can't be edited, but the actual notes should be all good.

I've heard good things about PC Islay barley, but I haven't seen it around here and since I rated Rockside farms only a point higher than Classic Laddie, it's not a high priority. I'll keep an eye out for a sample, though.



Cake_my_day here with a short review. Today:

Port Charlotte An Turas Mor

Islay, 46%

An Turas Mor is Gaelic and means great journey. Unchillfiltered, non colored. Smoke: 40ppm.

color: amber -1.5

nose: peat, linoleum, medicinal, smoke of an extinct campfire, tar, citrus, vanilla, hint of passion fruit

taste: extinct campfire, salty, creamy malt, lemon zest, hint of roasted almonds, tea with lots of milk, apricots cake

finish: lingers, champagne

Well balanced. With every sip a slight burning on the tip of the tongue. Needs water. Pretty young, but if you like to try a Port Charlotte and don't want to spend a lot of money, go for this.

85/100



Okay, I've been reviewing a good mixture of Higher End malts and lower end ones. Gotta steady myself, start into some good priced malts that aren't rare as heck...

Before I dive into the rare as heck ones. Nut on the road, Prick on the Pavement, Taint on the Tarmac, let's do this!

First up, thanks so much to /u/mentel42 for the swap of this one. It's (like a whole bunch of whiskies) not available in Ontario at the moment, and if it were, I'd probably have to trade my first born for a bottle.

Not that I know where or who that first born is, but it would be rough doing the trade, none the less.

Port Charlotte An Turas Mor is yet another malt from the Bruichladdich distillery, this one being the first NAS under their Port Charlotte Brand. Don't blink, they may come out with 2 more whiskies while your eyes involuntarily shut.

The Port Charlotte line is their Heavily Peated ones, the ones that give you coal miner's lung and you love it.

And... well, that's all I could find out about this one. It's the first of the PC that isn't cask strength, so some people think it's the red-headed step child. Sure, it's not loved, but mostly just because the other brothers and sisters all work for NASA.

Enough jibber-jabber, let's try this!

Price: N/A in Ontario

Region: Islay

Abv: 46%

Nose: Peat,  chocolate, dried chili pepper flakes, vanilla, melon, leather, campfire, bacon

Wow. You know, looking back, it's been awhile since I've had a nice, peaty whisky, and this has a nice, smooth smell to it. Just a little heat, some vanilla, a little fruit, and then leather campfire bacon.

Giving up that random kid I don't know about for a bottle is sounding better as I nose this.

Taste: Sweet corn, peat/smoke, bacon, BBQ ribs, custard, toffee

Almost a bourbon taste to it, yet with that heavy "I just walked into a Southern restaurant and my pants hate me" taste as well.

It's a good thing, but I wish that the sweetness wasn't just from the corn, or a little fruit or chocolate elements, or some more spices.

Finish: Peat, yoghurt raisin, anise, cloves, cracklins, brine, Tiramasu, orange juice

Interesting finish. Cracklins are fried pork pieces, like bacon.

Yet there's a nice spice and acidity to it as well, not just a peat bomb.

Conclusion: I have no idea how any of the hard to find Port Charlotte's taste, but given how good this is, I can only assume amazing. What I'm saying is: Say hello to your new parents, the Liquor store, if it ever comes to Ontario.
That all said, the taste, while nice, need a little more going on to be "Yes I will commit human trafficking" level of good. I'd buy this instead of Ardbeg 10, as it's just that little bit better, which is saying quite a bit.

86/100

Scotch review #154, Islay review #39

Other Bruichladdich reviews

Bruichladdich 10 year - The Laddie Ten

Bruichladdich 15 year Old

Bruichladdich 35 year Douglas Laing Old Malt Cask

Bruichladdich DNA 4th Edition MCMLXXXV

Bruichladdich Octomore 03.1

Bruichladdich Resurrection 2001