Good afternoon /r/scotch! Thanks to a recent swap with /u/johnysteaks I have a sample of Bruichladdich Port Charlotte 10 year old for review. I know almost nothing about the distillery or the whiskey, so let's jump right in!

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte 10 year old, 46% ABV

Nose dense, rich peat, hazelnut, vanilla, bitter caramel. Dark and foreboding. 8/10

Taste Tons of peat smoke, caramel, dried apricots and pears, canned pineapple, slightly nutty. This is flat out delicious, it's a shame I can't get this anymore. 48/50

Body Medium bodied and leaves a little too much oil behind. Let's plenty of smoke linger though. 7/10

Finish Long, warm, and smokey, a toffee not emerges and there is a creamy feel to the smoke hanging around. 18/20

Value I don't know quite how to score this as from what I gather it's been discontinued. If I saw this under $75 I would definitely pull the trigger, beyond that I do not know. 8/10

Overall I'm very impressed with my first Bruichladdich and I'm excited to try more. I've never had something this peated, but at no point did I think it was overwhelming. A nice blend of flavors that all lead to a very enjoyable dram. Total: 89/100

Scotch Review 35

Network Review 114

Question How does this compare to the Scottish Barley, Heavily Peated offering of theirs? 



Nice review.

In reference to your question, I personally think that Port Charlotte 10 is a much better balanced whisky then Scottish Barley. While Scottish Barley is 4% stronger it almost seem like Bruichladdich was trying to compensate for the fact that it's younger, and less complex, and quite frankly harsher. Yes it's nice that it's 50% but not if it's because it couldn't hack it a 46%.



Good evening, Scotchit. I decided to make my first foray into the mass of offerings from Bruichladdich. Here are my impressions of their standard peated expression:

Scotch whisky review 13

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte 10, 46% abv

Price: $58

Color: Pale gold, nice natural color

Nose: Fresh lemon zest and lemon juice. Restrained medicinal peat. Sweet biscuits. A fresh sea breeze. Grilled fish drizzled with lemon juice.

Body: Medium

Taste: Lots of sweet malt. Grassy peat. Light wood smoke. Lemon and lime juice. Clove, cinnamon, and black pepper. 

Finish: Sweet and spicy citrus burst gives way to a nice dying wood fire. 

A tasty malty Islay whisky. Despite the ?heavily peated? claim, the peat and smoke flavors are restrained and don't dominate the whisky. In fact, I think citrus and malt notes might actually be slightly more prominent. Tastes like a hybrid of Springbank 10 and Kilchoman Machir Bay.

Score: 88/100



Bruichladdich Octomore 5.1 - 59.5% ABV - 5 years old - Islay

This sample was a super awesome secret santa gift from /u/nonmagnetic

Nose: Cereal, peat, saltwater taffy, "raw" barley, brownies, salted caramel, rope, smoked salmon, coffee. Deep and rich. After ten minutes, out of nowhere, Cocoa puffs! 

Taste:  Peat, torch-like warmth, some metal, lime, almond, wet earth, clay, flowers

Finish: More metallic notes, fresh fish, sugar, peat, sweet bread, pork, sea salt, mocha, peppermint, pollen. Lingering dusted cocoa and lemon cake. Distant medicine box.

I swear, every three minutes the nose morphs! I get a distinctly chocolatey character throughout this whisky. Complex is an understatement.

94/100

Bruichladdich Octomore 6.1 - 57% ABV - 5 years old - Islay

Nose: Immediately more floral than 5.1, more vegetal too, with hay, ginger, and citrus. Smells less mature at first sniff. But just like with 5.1, a few minutes in the glass and this one starts singing. Buttery. Tangerine. Baked apples. Lots of peat, of course. Motor oil. Something dank, tangy. Musky cologne. Salt. Tropical fruits. Ocean-soaked burlap.

Taste: Ashy and dry. Pollen, eucalyptus, dark chocolate, espresso, caramel, vanilla, whipping cream, scallion, scallops, scaffolding (kidding, I think), powdered sugar, tar, and what I imagine driftwood tastes like

Finish: Bitter wood, peat, sea salt, rosemary, red meat, heavy cream, apples!, espresso, raw tuna. Brown sugar, baked citrus rind. Lingering cured pork, cocoa, and campfire.

Where 5.1 gave me lots of chocolate, 6.1 gives me lots of dairy. And lots of other crazy stuff. Again, very complex, changing in the glass minute by minute. Dryer, more floral than 5.1.

94/100

Tasting 5.1 and 6.1 side by side is a fascinatingly fun experience. Both will do wonderful things with just a few drops of water. Perhaps I'm acclimated to big peat bomb Scotches, but neither of these came off as hugely peaty. The peat is there in a big way, but there's so much more going on that I almost forget about the peat after a while. Really nice, certainly something worth seeking out.

And now for a bonus Bruichladdich review:

Port Charlotte 10 Heavily Peated - 46%ABV - 10 years old

This sample was also a super awesome secret santa gift from /u/nonmagnetic

Nose: Oak cask influence. Oranges. Fruity and floral. Sea air. Sort of body oder ish. Earthy. Mackerel. Lemon. Bourbon casks (how embarrassing if that's not what they use)

Taste: Big earthy peat, mouthful of salt, cured ham, seaside fire, sweet, some spent coffee grounds

Finish: Campfire smoke, beach air, burning wood, some pork, some citrus, some cocoa

This is good. But it doesn't reach the same heights that the Octomores reach. Port Charlotte 10 is a bit less focused, more safe, less multidimensional. But it's by no means bad. Except the body odor in the nose, which I can't tell if I like or not. A good peat blast for a good price.

87/100



very nice reviews.  /u/kdz13 is now on an Octomore hunt.

*edit found one in my own sample collection.  



tempted.  PM me what you need for it.

Does anybody have any comments on the taste of the 2.1 vs. the later versions?



Review #44: Port Charlotte 10 Heavily Peated

ABV: 46%

Color: amber

Nose: peat, vanilla, chocolate, a little smoke, coconut milk

Taste: peppery, peat, a little smoke, coconut milk, oily, roasted calamansi, vanilla. I feel like peatiness of this is like a mix of bitter gourd, vanilla, chocolate and coconut milk.

Finish: long, hot and peaty 

Conclusion: A bit disappointed with this. One, the abv is low compared to its younger brothers. Two, I didn't find this complex. After the peat there was little else. The peatiness isn't a turn off though. It's a different kind of peat for me. Very interesting.

Score: 86



Islay. 46% ABV.

Score: 89

I tried this a couple months ago but forgot to post a review. I thought it was well-balanced and delicious. One of those whiskies that continually gets betters as you drink it. It's definitely my favorite Bruichladdich so far, although there haven't been many. I'd probably buy a full bottle.



This is: the heavy hitter of Bruichladdich's Port Charlotte line. I have mixed feelings about this Islay distillery, but their PC7 is the best I've tried as far, which bodes well for this fella. Let's dig in!  

50%ABV  

color: light amber... Very oily.  

nose: pungent peat... Reeks of peat, chigarid, chlorine, and asphalt.  

taste: sour & surprisingly smooth... Pretty one-dimensional, with lime and honey.  

finish: briney, smokey, & complex... Big sea salt and campfire smoke, with bullion, lemon, and lastly lingering spearmint. There we go!  

conclusions: The nose made me brace for a peat punch in the jaw but this was damn good! Warming, a shockingly light mouthfeel, and very drinkable with a smoldering finish. Best Laddie I've tried so far!  

90/100

Personal Bruichladich rundown:
Laddie Waves: 61/100
Laddie Ten: 79/100
PC7: 84/100
Octomore 6.1: 83/100  



What's the "new" NAS? The new "CC" airport thing?

(I've had the Scottish Barley and the Islay Barley, which both seem to be current. And the An Turas Mor before that.)



50%ABV

Are you sure? I'm pretty sure the 10 year old one was when they were still 46%...



wtf does the title mean and/or why is this review of such poor quality??!?  This is a semi-blind review - all notes composed blind, with post-reveal commentary in italics

Initial Impressions: another peated dram... I think I'm going to need to replenish the semi-blind box with a greater variety

Nose: fairly  hot, citrus, peat (earth, not so much smoky and no iodine), savory meats, vanilla, saltwater brine

Taste: flatter than the nose suggested - I'd almost say "cardboard peat" but that's just weird.  Peated, with wood influence, well integrated, with the burn evenly distributed behind everything.  There are a few secondary flavors, but they are currently too weak to identify.  Some of these include red fruits (very mild) and a generic "oily"ness

Finish: A burst of citrus peat leads the way as soon as the liquid clears the tongue.  A pleasant peated aftertaste fades slowly through earthiness and continues to fade to nothing.

I like peat, what more can I say.  

Score: 92/100

Would I buy it again? Probably.

This is labelled "extra" meaning that whoever sent me the sample threw it in as a freebie.  Unfortunately my records do not know who is to blame.  I feel quite bad being unable to give credit where credit is due, especially on such a nice gesture.  Identify yourself and I'll say "thank you!"



Can't wait to get my hands on one of these second editions! I don't even care to hit you up for a sample swap, because I'm picking one up the second I see it. Thanks for being first into the fray on these, it's fun reading them.

Port Charlotte is a weird chameleon of an Islay for me, depending on my mood it's good or amazing. I can never "remember" what it tastes like, as opposed to Ardbeg, Laphroaig, or Lagavulin which I'll already be craving before I grab for the bottle. Hard to explain. I love it though!



I'm doing something a little different tonight, and opening both of my Port Charlotte 10 bottles and trying them side by side.  I've never had either of these in the past, so going in fresh and open minded.

?

First up is the Port Charlotte 10 - Heavily Peated.  This was peated to 40ppm and aged in first fill Bourbon casks.  Bottled at 46% ABV.  Its been discontinued since about 2013 I believe, though they recently had it for sale on Bruichladdich's website in the "Crate Diggers" section.

?

Nose:  Nice tarry peat and sea salt.  Sweet lemon meringue, vanilla, and medicinal iodine.

Palate:  Medium weight, lighter than what I was expecting.  Though after tasting several Octomores last night, perhaps my senses are still a bit off.  Lemons and oranges.  Lots of brine and tarry smoke.  Surprisingly smooth and easy to drink.  A drop of water doesn't do much for this, but usually I never add water to <50% whisky anyway, so more of an experiment.

Finish:  Medium long finish.  Lots of peat smoke, tar, and salt.  Some fresh lemon as well.

Score: 85/100

?

Overall, its good.  Better than the NAS, but not that much better.  I'm spoiled for having drank quite a bit of PC11 and PC12 in the past year, and this really doesn't compare too well.  But now let's see how the Second Edition compares.

?

Next up is the Port Charlotte 10 - Second Limited Edition.  Also peated to 40ppm, but instead of just Bourbon barrels, its aged in first fill Bourbon, Sherry, Tempranillo, and French Wine casks.  Bottled at 50% ABV.

?

Nose:  Much different on the nose.  Sweeter and more floral.  I get plenty of peat, but its sweeter and not tarry.  Wildflowers.  Oranges and lemons and sea salt.

Palate:  Medium weight, a bit heavier than the first edition, probably due to the higher ABV.  Very fruity.  Citrus, strawberries, and apples.  Lots of brine as well.  And a more subdued peat.  Much more complex than the first edition, but somewhat rougher as well.  A couple drops of water actually seems to help this.  The fruit and floral notes really shine and it smooths it out a bit as well.

Finish:  Medium long finish.  Lemony and tart.  The fruit really shines in the finish, sitting nicely atop the layers of peat smoke.

Score: 87/100

?

I definitely like the second edition more than the first.  But neither are really blowing my mind.  The first edition is good, and a good value, but nothing I would seek out again.  The second is much better and more interesting.  I think the higher ABV and more interesting casks they used really helped.  I'm happy to have this bottle, and its a solid deal given the current prices as well.

Now that I've tried all the Second Edition Bruichladdich Tens, I was thinking about which are worth reordering and stocking up a couple bottles of.  For my palate, I want more of The Bruichladdich Ten.  Probably 2 or 3 bottles.  And the Octomore 10 is worth as many bottles as I can afford (which is honestly probably just one more).  I'm glad to see the age statements make a comeback, and all three improved from their older versions.

?

/u/review_bot 'Charlotte'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Charlotte:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



Welcome to this PC faceoff! In the left corner, we have PC An Turas Mor, coming to the arena by way of /u/VulgarDisplayOfStuff! In the right corner, we have PC 10yr, coming to the arena by way of /u/Johnysteaks! Gentlemen, thank you for your contributions.

Per the usual, the sample was tasted blind initially, with notes in italics added during the second (revealed) tasting if I found anything important.

?

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte 10yr Peated ? 46%

?

Bruichladdich Port Charlotte ? An Turas Mor ? 46%

?

Average score to date: 83

?

So I did enjoy the PC10 more than the Scottish Barley ? I really liked that cigar leaf flavor, it complements the fruit profile really well. The ATM was a little bit of a disappointment, as it was too lightly peated and a bit too sweet for my palate as it stands. Both are otherwise fine whiskeys. My scores for them falls just about in line with my preferences: PC10 > Scottish Barley  > An Turas Mor.



Good call on the PC10.  I'd give a 3/5 as well.  I noticed the cigar a bit more notably but I smoke enough to care.  :)

Good comparison.



That's not actually the PC10 release though, it's just the standard 10 year old release:  

http://www.bruichladdich.com/the-whisky/port-charlotte/pc10



Port Charlotte PC10 isn't the same as Port Charlotte 10yo. Based on the price you mentioned and image you used, I guess you tasted the 10yo?

In terms of sweetness, how did the two relate? I found the An Turas Mor a little too sweet, but the 10yo is still on my wishlist.

You should also try PC Islay Barley, btw. Better than the Scottish Barley, imho.



That's correct, I had the 10 yr. Unfortunately the post title can't be edited, but the actual notes should be all good.

I've heard good things about PC Islay barley, but I haven't seen it around here and since I rated Rockside farms only a point higher than Classic Laddie, it's not a high priority. I'll keep an eye out for a sample, though.



Oh, hi! I haven't had a Port Charlotte for years now, and I actually don't know why. I had the An Turas Mor and the PC8, and quite liked them. Port Charlotte is a peated version of Bruichladdich. Although there's Bruichladdich Peat an Octomore...

Port Charlotte 10

Heavily Peated

Islay, 46%

40 ppm, non chill-filtered

color nose: smoke, road tar, roses, dried apricots, elder, tangerine

taste: ashy smoke, oranges, walnuts, coffee, cocoa, oak, burnt caramel

finish: hazelnuts, smoke, licorice, black pepper

Nosewise both dirty and floral. Well balanced palate. Lingering and warming finish. Solid whisky.

86/100



Since Port Charlotte, Bruichladdich is not making peated Bruichladdies anymore. It appears that Bruichladdich bought the old PC distillery many years ago with plans to make PC in its original distillery again. I am going to check how far they are within two weeks :-)  

I prefer the Peat Project (even though it is NAS) over the 10 and Scottisch Barley, but An Turas Mor is also a nice one.