Review # 147

Bunnahabhain 25 46.3% Bottle porn.

Color: Amber +1.5 Apple Juice, Medium Tears, Wide Legs.

Nose: Apple Cider Vinegar, Oak, Barley, Honey, A bit Medicinal, Mineral, Hint of Peat, Leather, Red Apple, Wet Canvas Shoe. As it sits more Honey and Vanilla, Cabbage. 

Mouth Feel: Medium Oily, Spicy.

Taste: Woody, Sap, Grapefruit Zest, Black Pepper, Bitter Green Apple, Sharp, Underripe Pineapple, Metallic.

Finish: Mineral Granite Like off of a rock, Dry Wine Tannin, Hemp Rope, 

With Water:  Nose: Water tames some bitter, Still Grapefruit Zest, Lemon, Hint of Vinegar.

Taste: Bitter wood Tannin hits hard, as does bitter citrus. Does not take water well.

Score:  Nose:  21,  Taste:  18,  Finish:  20,  Balance:  18,   Total: 77

Not at all like the usual OB Bunnahabhains (which I am a fan of). Sharp, bitter maybe over aged? A lot of bitter wood notes and dry tannins in this one. Sadly I?m disappointed in this one. Almost tastes like a cheaper malt was used here. Maybe this bottle got too much sunlight or heat on the shelf?

Review # 148

Bunnahabhain Toiteach 46%, Flash review Pint?s Pub Bottle porn.

Color: Amber +1, Wide tears and Legs

Nose: Beach, Iodine, Peat Smoke, Hazelnuts, Pear, Ginger, Dry Grass, Apple

Mouth Feel: Oily

Taste: Pepper, Smoke, Red Pepper, Dry White Wine, Bitter Green Grape, Dry Oak, and Green Wasabi.

Finish: Dry, Grassy, White Pepper, Good Length.

Score:  Nose:  22,  Taste:  23,  Finish:  23,  Balance:  23,   Total: 91

This is the most peated Bunnas I have ever tasted. Good, a nice Islay offering from one of the least peat laden OB?s in their standard range.

Review # 149

Bunnahabhain Signatory Heavily Peated 1997 46% Bottle Porn

Color:  Amber -2, Very Light Chardonnay, Slow Wide tears, Medium Legs.

Nose: Tree Fruit (Red Apple, Pear), Brine, Honey Vanilla, Whiff of Smoke, Dry Vegetal, Grassy, hint of Sea Air.

Mouth Feel: Oily, Warm, Medium Spiciness.

Taste: Dry Cereal, Mineral, Peppery, Radish, Smoked Gouda, Mustard Seed, Well Used Oak Cask, Peat, (but not as much as I would have expected).

Finish:Dry, Bitter, Slightly Sharp, Smoke Returns, as does Dry Grass and Peat, Decent Length, Hint of Soap.

With Water:  Nose: Dried out Tea, Bitter Citrus, Smoky cheese is back, Sandy Beach.
Taste: Still Spicy, Peppery, Dry Ginger, Sharp Metallic tinge, Old Wood, Pencil Shavings.

Score:  Nose:  20,  Taste:  21,  Finish:  22,  Balance:  20,   Total: 83

Good whisky yet nothing overly special, reminds me of a slightly muted Coal Ila, but a bit more fruit. The peat and smoke are present but not nearly as intense as Laphroaig or Ardbeg. Decent enough whisky, kind of run of the mill, but not worth over $100 a bottle IMO.



I was sort of underwhelmed by it, to be honest. 

But I had it during a trip to Islay where wares from all eight were sampled. Generously. So the fact that a peated expression from a distillery who bases themselves on being the unpeated Islay distillers was a bit underwhelming, might not be a surprise at all.

The Darach ?r, however, was very much to my liking.



Love the 12, find the 25 to be pleasant (but not pleasant enough for it's price tag).

Can't stand the 18. Both Bunnahabhain 18 and Dalmore just has a taste of prune-juice to me. On the other hand, it makes able to understand what's going on with people who say they can't stand the taste of Laphroaig because it tastes of "band aids".



Review #104

Hello everyone, I?m a big fan of Bunnahabhain?s house style so when I had the opportunity to snag a sample of the Toiteach from /u/Texacer I jumped at the chance? thanks again man.

You can check out my Bunnahabhain 12 review here

Bunnahabhain Toiteach, 46% abv, NCF, Islay

Nose: Nutty peat, spicy smoke, buttery and nutty? peppered macadamia oil. Paprika and soul pineapple.

Palate: Heavy, oily, delectable. Black pepper licked off a dusty fireplace mantle. Bitter vanilla, sea brine.

Finish: Tangy, bitter. Drying oak bite, stale peat. Heavy bitter edge is a bit of a turnoff.

85/100

Great nose, average palate, loses me at the finish because it?s a little too bitter.



Needless Backstory: I was at the bar for my birthday a bit ago, and decided to have five single malts. Because of course I did. This was the first of the night. Why? Because...  

This is: the peated NAS official bottling by Bunnahabhain -- quickly becoming a favorite distillery. 46%ABV, $65  

Color: light gold.  

Nose: light, fresh peat... coriander and wet grass.  

Taste: ardbeggy... crisp peat, more grass, corn husk, jalapeno, char, and medium heat -- numbing in fact.  

Finish: sweet then sour... malt, honey, and cashews; then lemon zest, leather, mustard seed, and horseradish.  

Conclusions: it looks like "toe-check" is similar to but better than Ardbeg 10, yet a bit short of Kilchoman and Caol Ila territory in my humble opinion. Good dram though. A savory Islay. Definitely worth trying. 85/100  

Comparisons:
Bunna 18 - 92/100
Bunna 12 [current 46%] - 86/100
Bunna 12 [old bottling, 40%] - 83/100
Bunna 8 [G&M] - 61/100  

Compeatriots:
Caol Ila 12 - 87/100
Kilchoman Machir Bay - 87/100
Ardbeg 10 - 82/100



Bunnahabhain Toiteach ? 46%, $65

Nose: Smoked Oysters, salt, bog peat, sweet bread.

Taste: Smokey blast, then earthy roundness, slightly sweet, oaky spice. Light Mouthfeel

Finish: Peat builds to the finish and stays all the way with herbal notes accompanying it. There is a hint of wet grass too. Medium Length

Notes: A very nice full peated Bunna. Slightly different peat than I?ve experienced elsewhere. Very lovely. 

86/100



Do you know how to say this Scotch? What syllable do you stress? 

Is it BOO-na-ha-venn? Boo-NA-ha-venn? 



Mystery Sample Provided by /u/luopjiggy labeled as #2.        

? 

Color : Ex-bourbon cask or hogshead.           

Nose : Slight smoke, vanilla, and some butter notes.         

Taste : Vanilla, cereal, apricots, malt, faint smoke & some bright fruits.          

Finish : A little harsh that perhaps indicates its immature age but is still a well balanced scotch.
?
Ex-bourbon cask, lightly peated, 43% & 8-10 years in age. I figure it's a Bruichladdich Islay Barley or some non-Islay that has slight peat influence. I need to stop drinking such peat bombs as I am having a hard time picking up on peat notes when it is subtle.    

Reveal : Bunnahabhain Toiteach 43% NAS peated.    2/5



Must

Know

Reveal...      heh. I love these.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  I have much respect for Bunnahabhain.  Haven't had a bad one and I love their 12 standard for its silky smooth islay delivery.  So after finishing my superb Bunnahabahin Heavily Peated 13 year old Signatory and not being able to get another thanks to Binnys newest bs policy, I needed to find an alternative.  so here's Bunnahabhain Toiteach 92 proof

close to the signatory.  enjoyable I guess.  doesnt break 90 because of it being a higher price for lower abv though.  The signatory version was also aged longer when this is NAS.  I will probably keep a bottle in stock because I'm a big peat lover.  Its very different than the 12 standard or 18.  good stuff if you cant get the signatory version. 

89/100



yeah i'm sure, they did that to me once too with that Springbank!

but, make it a filter like MoM does. I get my hopes up and then "oh no, sorry bitch, you cant have the malt you really want"

sigh



It smells of cheese and tastes of coke?

I need to try this one. 



Hi Scotchit! Sometimes ol' Cake gets buck wild and tries something gnarly and really fancy, like driving with windows on both sides down, buying the seasoned ham instead of the normal one, or even wearing the Monday's pyjamas on Thursday. And when he's really nutty as a fruit cake, he's going for a peated Bunna...:

Bunnahabhain Toiteach

Islay, 46%

color: light gold

nose: salty sea notes, peat smoke, walnut yoghurt, hints of lemon sherbet and christmas stollen

taste: ash, rock, walnuts, sea water, pepper, mint, Irish moss, herbs

finish: litchi, pepper, mint, Irish moss, raisins

Dominant sea notes on the nose. Herbal on the palate. Lingering finish. Smoky, yet mellow.

Interesting - I mean: gnarly.

83/100



Bunnahabhain is an Islay distillery that doesn?t have quite the reputation for peaty monsters like some of its neighbors do, though they seem to have been trying to change that over the past few years. A few years back when I was really getting in to Scotch, peated Bunnahabhain IB?s were semi-plentiful, and Black Bottle (a blend which uses Bunnahabhain as a key component) was somewhat peated. They seemed to change course when Toiteach was introduced, which (not coincidentally) seemed to go along with a decrease in peated Bunnahabhain IB?s, and a re-branding of Black Bottle that went along with it losing much of its smokiness. As their peated offerings have been NAS, with weird Gaelic names like Toiteach, and priced well above the standard 12 yo, the cynic in me kind of thinks they?re playing me for a bit of a sucker with all this rebranding noise...but, some peaty NAS whisky is quite good, so let?s see how this stuff holds up, and compares to a less-peated Bunna OB in the 18. Thanks to /u/vertical_bog for the samples. The 18 is 46.3% abv, the Toiteach 46%, both ncf (which Bunnhabhain no longer does across the board, if I?m not mistaken).

Nose 

18 - Seems quite nice - rich, sherried, seasidey-ness. Coffee cake, fruitcake, cinnamon, nutmeg, clove, allspice, black pepper, nocino (an Italian walnut liqueur), espresso, and a bit of brine. Very well composed and balanced.

Toiteach - Good combination of sweet+smoky. Butterscotch, vanilla frosting, ashy smoke, sea-saltiness, ginger, black pepper, a touch of lemon. Pretty bold. Kind of reminds me of a peated Bruichladdich.

Palate 

18 - Very ?dark?, if that makes sense. Espresso, nocino, the aforementioned baking spices, fruitcake, dark chocolate, with a touch of saltiness and black pepper appearing as it develops. Thick, viscuous texture. Nicely integrated, if a tad towards the earthy side of things.

Toiteach - The vanilla+butterscotch lead off, with some ginger, lemon, black pepper, and plenty of smoke. Really nicely balanced/integrated - everything here seems to play its part well. Medium-light, slightly oily feel.

Finish

18 - Gets quite spicy here - the peppery note really takes off, with some ginger and the salty-sherry sweet and coffee notes providing the backbone. I really like how the salty/oceany, bitter and sweet notes all play off each other here. Very long.

Toiteach - Stays rather smoky, with ginger, black pepper, lemon, and the aforementioned sea-salty note. Fades quickly, unfortunately, but it?s nice while it lasts.

These two are worlds apart in style - which kind does, and doesn?t, surprise me. The Toiteach is, unsurprisingly, closer to a smoky Bunna 12 (or Port Charlotte), and neither are close to as heavily sherried as the 18, which has a much darker, more brooding character...a closer comparison for Bunna 18 would probably be HP18, which, in my opinion, it can go toe-to-toe with despite the HP?s bigger reputation.

As for the Toiteach...it?s good, but it?s a bit overpriced at the $70-$80 I normally see it at. It?s solid stuff, but its flavor profile is most like other entry level peated Islays, which can be had for $20 less.

18 - 89/100

Toiteach - 87/100



Hey guys, back with part 2 of the Scotchtrip, my first day in Islay. I'm sorry but it's a long one.

The first tour we did on Islay was Bowmore. 

The tour itself was great. Bowmore have their own maltings, although they can only produce enough for 10-15% of the whisky. The focus of the tour was on how they've kept everything traditional, including Oregan Pine washbacks. This was interesting because we got to see a side by side comparison of different stages of the fermentation: after 1 hour, 15 hours, 30 hours and 48 hours.
We also got a look in the warehouse and then the tour ended back at the tasting bar, overlooking the sea.
We were given a dram of Bowmore 12 in a tumbler. A tumbler, wow, wasn't expecting that. Whatever.
Pretty boring stuff, smelt of marzipan and I'd had it before. Then I asked to try the new batch of Tempest, I'd tried batch 4 and really liked it so was interested to try batch 6.

Bowmore Tempest Batch 6 54.9%

Colour: Light Gold

Body: Medium

Nose: Light and tropical. Mango, pineapple and melon.

Water: Raisins and pastry. Marzipan and cinnamon after a bit.

Taste: Light arrival, building spice and smoke, sea salt and white pepper ending on tropical fruit.

Water: More peat. Cinnamon and marzipan after a bit.

Finish: Medium length. Citrus fruit- Lemon.

Notes: Not as good as batch 4.

75/100

Then I spotted a bottle of the sherried Feis Ile.

Bowmore 12 Feis Ile 2015 1st fill sherry 59.6%

Colour: Dark Amber

Body: Full

Nose: BBQ, wood smoke, raisin, red grape, meaty red fruit.

Water: More sherry, musty with some damp dunnage. 

Taste: Intense, big and juicy. Wood smoke, meaty, red fruit, red grape, char.

Water: More sherry and spice. 

Finish: Medium length. Sherry and raisin.

77/100

After that cheeky number I popped into the shop to not spend my money and saw they had Gold Reef out to taste.

Bowmore Gold Reef 43%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light/Medium

Nose: Citrus and vanilla, marzipan.

Taste: Soft and easy, some peat.

Finish: Short/medium length. Lemon.

66/100

Didn't buy anything in the shop. It's a shame because Bowmore can make fantastic whisky, it's just most of the time they don't.

Onto Caol Ila. It's huge. Absolutely colossal. The mash tun is like a huge spaceship, they've stuck with wooden washbacks at the moment but they may be replacing them in a few years. Massive stills looking out onto the ocean with a control room that looks like it's been stolen out of Startrek. 
After all that we went out to the old abandoned cooperage. Which is really cold but that's where you do the tastings. Alright, fine. You could choose two tastings out of the 12, DE or Moch. I'd tried the 12 so went with the DE and Moch. 

Caol ila Distiller's Edition Moscatel Finish 43%

Nose: Sweet, barley sugar, white grape, lemon.

Taste: Sweet, vanilla, white grape, peat coming through, bonfire. A little harsh spice- White pepper/ginger heat.

Finish: Medium length. Soft and smoky.

69/100

Caol ila Moch 43%

Nose: Fruity and soft. Watermelon, melon, white grape, lemon, lemon cake, vanilla, barley sugar.

Taste: Again soft, fresh and fruity. Watermelon, lemon, soft peat and building bonfire smoke with a little ginger/white pepper heat.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Fresh smoke with a hint of salt.

70/100

The Moch took me by surprise in that's it not bad. 
They also had some barrels for a premium tasting and I asked. The guide replied that the sherry cask was terrible so they might be throwing it out. A bit cheekily I ask whether I could have some. 

Caol Ila 1988 VC Sherry Cask 56.4%

Colour: Amber

Body: Full

Nose: Sulphur, sherry, Heather smoke, more sulphur over time.

Water: More honeyed and floral. Old wood and raisin.

Taste: Sweet arrival, sherry, spice, Heather smoke, pepper, then sweeter again, brown sugar.

Water: Old wood and floral spice. Then more alcohol and a bit of harsh spice.

Finish: Medium. Sweet sherry and sulphured smoke.

Notes: Not too bad, the cask's just gotten the best of it. I quite liked it.

76/100

Stumbling back into the car I realised I hadn't spent any money again. What a result!

Bunnahabhain was just round the corner, so there next. Good tour with a guy who kept slapping his palm with back of his hand to emphasise important points. Wooden washbacks again and the ridiculous shape of the spirit stills give an oiliness to the spirit, but the distillation is done based on time (fast basically), which I think makes the spirit quite harsh.
At the end we went back up to the shop for a taste of the 12 (which I've had) and the Toiteach.

Bunnahabhain Toiteach 46%

Colour: Light Gold

Body: Full

Nose: Grassy and oily. Oily peat.

Taste: Oily with building mineral development. Harsh alcohol and pepper.

Finish: Medium. Oil, some smoke.

Notes: Very oily, very harsh, very Bunna.

66/100

Didn't end up buying anything at Bunna either, except for a miniature of Deanston 12 that I've wanted to try. 

Sorry it's been a long one. If you made it this far, well done.

Up next: Part 3: Laphroaig.



My girlfriend and I each rented bikes from Jim at Islay Cycles.  We got two solid Raleigh touring bikes and Jim provided everything to go with them such as a lock, pannier, and helmets for ?60 each for the entire week.  Solid and comfortable ride plus the pannier was very useful when grabbing groceries or bottles from the distilleries.  He also had fenders installed which was great because there was a few squalls.  The tires  were 700x35mm so great for the rough roads.  

We biked all over Islay last june and the weather was great.  Only thing to say is that the roads are rough, especially the side routes.  Not much of an issue if you're used to gravel but it is something to consider.  Here's some more info  Have fun!  I really wish I could go have another week of biking on Islay.  It's so beautiful 



Thanks to /u/TequilaJunction for this one.

So... deja vu? Haven't I already reviewed this? I made some crass jokes, something about different places making different things. I think I mentioned my dick.

I didn't? That's odd.

Oh, and stuff about Gaelic being the second hardest part of the name to say. Yeah, that sounds familiar. Did I not post that yesterday?

Oh, they did it twice? Fucking hell, that is not helping my brain.

So.. Bunnahabhain Toiteach, which means Smokey (not that first part)... seriously, am I being punked here?

Cause Ashton Kutcher must have run out of interesting people if I'm up on the block. Is that even still a thing? Fuck, I have to get new references. Is someone going to yell "It's just a prank" and pistol whip me.

There we go, I feel young and with it again.

So this has a sherry influence. It's heavily peated with a Sherry influence. And NAS with the full meaning of that, as I couldn't find how old this was.

So let's just see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO at the moment

Region: Islay

Abv: 46%

Colour: 5Y 8/4

Nose: Sour raspberry, plum, funk, sour cream, cherry, smoke, lemon

The sherry element is pretty evident here. Reminds me of a sour cream icing I recently made.

What? I can't bake? The dick jokes and the off colour humour as well as being Canadian, I can't bake?

Anyway... it's sour. And cherry. And there's a smokey element. Good times.

Taste: Cherry, smoke, earth, pear, anise, dry, caramel

Big cherry note on this one. Keeps some of the bunna flavour profile with being dry, earthy, and pear.

This one is somewhat more complex than the last (the Ceobanach). I think the sherry influence adds to it well. And it maybe has more peat.

Finish: Cocoa, marshmallow, mint, butter, tarragon, persimmon

It finishes like an odd hot chocolate at the end. One of those ones that they bring out for about 2 months and then get rid of all of a sudden.

I like it. The herbal element is a little weird though.

Conclusion: This is a good dram. It takes a not so normally peated malt, adds to it, all while giving you the peat and sherry elements that it promises.

There's some off parts; the tarragon at the end, the overt sour notes on the nose, and maybe, just maybe, a lack of smoke for something that is suppose to be "heavily peated", because... well, the rest of the distilleries on Islay still exist.

All in all, worth a bottle, if you can find one.

83/100

Scotch review #367, Islay review #78, Whiskey Network review #560

1001 Whiskies to taste before you die review #256

Other Bunnahabhain reviews:

Bunnahabhain 12

Bunnahabhain 18

Bunnahabhain 1978 Signatory Cask Strength

Bunnahabhain 1984 Signatory

Bunnahabhain 1997 Signatory

Bunnahabhain 1997 Signatory (Unchillfiltered)

Bunnahabhain 24 1988 (Berry Bothers & Rudd)

Bunnahabhain Ceobanach

All reviews on my Wordpress



My Current Whisky Network = 77.70   

Standard Deviation = 9.97   

Skewness = -2.69598 

Kurtosis = 10.97430 

Median = 80 

IQR = 8