































Thanks to /u/Devoz for the sample!  Distilled in 1998 and aged in Bourbon barrels for 15 years.  Natural color and unchill-filtered.  Bottled at cask strength - 60.39%.

?

Nose:  Lots of vanilla.  Sea salt.  Sugar or frosting.  Peaches

Palate:  Big and brash.  Needs a bit of water to smooth things out.  And then its quite nice.  Vanilla.  Cherries.  Black pepper.

Finish:  Medium long finish.  Salty.  Plenty of oak and spice.  A bit of smokey peat as well, but really just a wisp.

Score: 88/100

?

I like this quite a bit.  As a huge fan of unpeated and lightly peated Islay's, I had high hopes for this as well.  I'd say it underperformed according to my expectations, but was still really nice.  I'm not going to go and seek this out.  I have a spot in my cabinet for Bruichladdich and Bunnahabhain when I want this sort of profile - they do it better and with more complexity.  But this is by no means bad.  Very, very good scotch and its informative and educational to taste the spirit without the peat.

?

/u/review_bot 'Caol Ila'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Caol Ila:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



Nice review. The unpeated Caol ila has always been interesting to me for the insight it gives into the Caol ila profile. The peat and smoke can the predominant flavors at times, so nice to get a better peak at what is underneath. 

Glad you enjoyed! 



Caol Ila 15 Unpeated (1998)

(15y, 60.39%, 1st fill ex-bourbon cask matured, 1998-2014)

?

Part of Diageo's 2014 Special Release lineup, this was a limited release with an outturn of 10,668 bottles.

Thanks to u/Lasidar for this sample!

?

Nose: Lemon/lime soda, mint, peach, vanilla, allspice, hint of mineral notes 

Taste: Lemon, apricot, vanilla, honey, apricot, brine

Finish: Pepper, oak, honey, mineral notes

?

Very clean nose, soft and fruity with some mineral notes behind it. More light and gentle than I?m used to with Caol Ila. The taste stays true to the nose, though here the flavours get greatly amped up in strength. Deliciously fruity spirit, with creamy vanilla and spices rounding it out nicely. Big kick of brine towards the end. Pleasantly warming on the finish, with pepper and mineral notes lasting the longest. The faintest wisp of smoke.

I?m a huge fan of Caol Ila and count several of their expressions among my favourites. This one took me to school, giving me a new look at an old friend. I had no idea the base spirit could be laced with such delicate fruits. Though not the most complex (and I still prefer their peated stuff), this one is easy drinking and quite enjoyable. Plus, it?s very cool to come out of this one with a new perspective on an old favourite.

?

85/100



Apparently you've never heard of Ontario :P

In all seriousness, this year's release of Caol Ila unpeated (17y, 1997-2016) looks like it's available in your neck of the woods. Alternatively, if you're planning a trip to AB, I could probably point out the 15y to you.



Caol ila 15 Year Unpeated (2014) - 60.39% 

Nose: Vanilla, peach, and light sweetness. 

Palate: Creamy, light fruit, with saltiness and light peat.  

Finish: Long finish, with prevalent mineral notes. Turning to a honey sweetness. Hints of smoke and warmth from the proof. Not bad, I could get use to this. The saltiness reminds me of an independent bottling of Talisker I had previously.  

Score: 87 

Overall: This certainly is an interesting scotch. I would not be able to recognize it has Caol ila without knowing what it was beforehand. It is a unique, cask strength scotch at a reasonable price, with a unique flavor profile. Normally I lean towards bold fruit flavors from port and sherry aging, or heavy peat. But this clearly is a well made scotch, though not tailored to my specific tastes. 



It really is something different. Right now I am sipping it side by side with the cask strength 1995 Glen Garioch, and the unpeated Caol ila edges it out. The finish is really what makes the difference. 

The cocaine and heroin were a housewarming gift, and are delightful things.  

http://www.ariashop.co.uk/heroin-cocaine-salt-and-pepper-shakers.html 

My wife is a fan of the artist who makes them, so it was a rather fitting gift. 



Caol Ila 9  Yr Signatory

Bottled from a hogshead at 43% abv. Thanks to /u/Forbiddenwaffle for the sample.

Nose - Whoa - this is easily the smokiest Caol Ila I?ve tried. Smoked butter, sea spray, vanilla, black and white pepper, maybe a little honey too. Seems savory as much, if not moreso, than sweet.

Palate - Lighter than the nose suggests, but still fairly smoky. Honey, vanilla, smoke, butterscotch, with a light lemon-limey note and some black and white pepper as it develops. Very light body.

Finish - The smoke amplifies here with lemon, oceany/salty notes, butter, honey, and pepper. Bigger than I would have thought for 43%. Eventually a nice, smoky, greasy bacon note shows up.

Pretty good stuff. Nicely full flavored for 43%, even if it feels a bit light. Good complexity for the age, too, but smoky stuff can get away with being bottled a bit younger. I?d pick this up for the right price, and though it?s pretty good, it?s also a pretty unremarkable Islay.

85/100

Caol Ila 15  Unpeated
While Caol Ila is best known for being a (moderately) peaty Islay-er, they?ve been releasing more unpeated versions lately, which I haven?t tried (until now). 

Thanks to /u/I_SAID_NO_GOLDFISH for the sample. Not sure what the abv on this one is, but it?s clearly cask strength.

Nose - Creamy vanilla, lemon-lime soda, black and white pepper, ocean. Pretty much what I expected, other than being a bit more bit light/airy than I would have thought. Water makes it seem sweeter, with bigger vanilla and lemon lime notes.

Palate - Quite sweet. Lots of vanilla, with honey, that lemon-lime soda note, butterscotch, black pepper, ginger, and some oceany salinity. Despite being unpeated, I could swear I pick up a light smokiness to this. Bold, nicely balanced, and full bodied. I like. Water again highlights the sweet and lemon/lime notes.

Finish - It seems like I pick up a lightly smoky note here too...the finish has a huge peppery note, with the vanilla/lemon lime/honey/oceany theme continuing. Goes forever.

This is a big, bold unpeated (but maybe lightly smoky still) coastal whisky, that?s really tasty and full flavored, if not terribly complex. Despite that lack of complexity, I still dig what this stuff does. 

90/100

Caol Ila MacKillops 23 Yr

A 23 year old IB of Caol Ila, again thanks to /u/I_SAID_NO_GOLDFISH. 55.9% abv.

Nose - Smoke, butterscotch, lemon-lime, black and white pepper, vanilla, ocean. Pretty much the same descriptors as the 9 yr Signatory, but this is a bit bolder and has a bit more richness to it, due in no small part I?m sure to being cask strength.

Palate - Lighter than I would have thought at first - has an almost gentle entry. Vanilla and honey at first, picking up some smoke, lemon-lime, ginger, sea-saltiness, and pepper as it develops. Surprisingly light body, given the abv. Not a lot of complexity, but the flavors eventually become fairly bold. Kind of light, but oily.

Finish - Gets much bolder here, with black and white pepper notes really taking off, with some light smoke, lemon-lime, honey, salt, and ginger. This is where this whisky really asserts itself.

Pretty tasty, but kind of a standard Caol Ila...I would have wanted a bit more given the age statement, as this pretty well falls in line with almost every Caol Ila I?ve had, but the finish is this one?s saving grace, in my opinion, as those pepper, ocean and lemon lime notes all come together in a really nice way, that?s kind of similar to the unpeated, which is a very good thing.

90/100

While this Caol Ila lineup was tasty, I can?t help but want a bit more from this distillery. With one exception I?ve tried, it seems like there?s 1 profile from this distillery, and it seems to stem from 1 cask type (well used bourbon) being used for this distillate, and it pretty well has me done exploring what this distillery has to offer. That said, It seems to work well, as the distillate itself seems fairly light, but there?s a lot of room for new cask types/flavor profiles here, I think.



I dropped  into Summerhill LCBO on my way through town and decided to try a couple drams. After buying some beer (found a Trappist Ale I hadn't had yet!) I decided to try this unpeated CS Caol Ila. I love the 12 year so I figured why not. 

Appearance:  urine yellow, those legs! Thick and generous.

Nose: fruit, brine, some oak. Very cool to smell the spirit unpeated.

Taste: holy crap! This is incredible. It is pretty hot, but not overpowering. Very fruity, berries, raspberries. Lots of briney sea water. Earthy despite being unpeated. A very malty dram. Just sublime.

Finish: finish lasts forever. Even after my next sample I was still tasting this beauty!

Rating: 93/100

this was incredible. If I hadn't already bought my $120 celebratory bottle for selling my house I probably would have changed my mind after tasting this. I'm really tempted to  go back and buy a bottle. Get this if you can... there's only about 10,000 bottles!

Previous Caol Ila Reviews:



there's only about 10,000 bottles!

Can't tell if being facetious or not...



haha i can see why you weren't sure. i was serious though. 10K bottles of a fantastic CS whisky wont last very long worldwide. 

the LCBO fortunately has quite a few of them left still so most of the ontario folks can get it if they want it.



And I'm back at the Highlander Pub, just like I said would happen because it already happened and boom I'm right because I lived it.

Gaze upon my majesty and weep.

So imagine you did one thing really, really well. So well, in fact, that you and your friends who do that thing, in your chosen area, are known worldwide for it.

You're Islay. You make peated whisky like nobodies business. And people love peated whisky so much it becomes a trend. A trend that, of course, starts getting people who don't like peat speaking up and pointing out the other, non-peated whiskies are able to build a flavour profile without this step, and they don't need it, and therefore they are better, blah, blah, blah.

Yes, that's a strawman. Or a peatman in this case. However I have heard some clash against big, brash peated whiskies, and a call for subtlety and all that. So much so, I think some of it got to the distilleries on Islay. Enough for us to see non-peated versions in recent years.

You can't throw a digital picture of a dead cat around here without hitting up a user who has tried and been unhappy with Ardbeg Blasda.

That said, the same can almost be said of the Caol Ila Unpeated Style that has seen an 8 year, a 12 year, a 15 year, and a 17 year release.

Today I'm reviewing the Caol Ila 15 Unpeated, originally distilled in 1998 to avoid the apocalypse as originally noted by the Aztecs (Citation Needed). It's aged in first-fill ex-bourbon casks, and released at cask strength, showing that Caol Ila knows what they are doing versus other, less popular non-peated versions.

I didn't buy a bottle when it came out, because... reasons? I think someone compared it to Clynelish and that turned me off a little. I don't know. I was silly.

None the less, I'm able to try some now, and the 17 year is showing up soon, so perhaps I can start hunting down these drams. Let's see how this one tastes, shall we?

Price: No longer available at the LCBO

Region: Islay

Abv: 60.39%

Colour: 7.5Y 9/6

Nose: Key lime pie filling, cereal, mint, buttermilk, lemongrass, oak, radish

Wow. I'm a moron for not buying this. Moving on.

Huge nose. Really cool flavours. Quite citrus and sweet, with the right amount of cereal, as I was told.

Taste: Croissant, cereal, cream, caramel, pretzels, floral

More and more of a bread shop on this one. Like some odd hybrid of Auchentoshan and Clynelish. There's big, odd flavours, and it's really buttery.

Maybe if I stopped eating real butter and just used whisky for butter kicks, I'd be fine? Or drunk all the time. Yeah, probably not going to work.

Finish: Tobacco, lemon curd, ginger, malt, roux, mint

Long finish. Not as complex, though there's a cooked butter/flour flavour that I get when I make a roux, with a nutty element to it.

I'm not in love with the finish as much as I should be, and that's because I'm not the biggest tobacco fan. If you are, you'll love this.

Conclusion: Wow. Really interesting dram. Nothing overtly complex and crazy, but it has a cavalcade of flavours that really surprise you.

This is a really unique dram. I'm really wondering what it's like older or younger. If I liked tobacco more, I'd probably have given this a much higher score. But I don't and thems the breaks.

83/100

Scotch review #486, Islay review #103, Whisky Network review #790

Other Caol Ila reviews:

Caol Ila 10 Dun Bheagan

Caol Ila 12

Caol Ila 13 2000 Gordon & MacPhail Cask Strength

Caol Ila 1991 The Cooper's Choice

Caol Ila 2001 Gordon & MacPhail Hermitage Wood Finish

Caol Ila 22 1991 Cadenhead's Authentic Collection

Caol Ila Cask Strength

Caol Ila Distillers Edition 2010

Caol Ila Distillers Edition 2011

Caol Ila Moch

Caol Ila SMWS 53.159 "A Captain of Industry"

Link to my website with all my reviews



My Current Whisky Network Average =     77.11

Standard Deviation =    10.08

Skewness =  -2.59828

Kurtosis =  9.95879

Median =    79

IQR =   9



originally distilled in 1999

I think this was distilled in 1998.