I went to a tasting last night at a Ruby Tuesdays.  There was a brand rep there from Dalmore and Jura, and we tasted the Dalmore 12, 15, 18, Cigar Malt and King Alexander, along with the Jura Prophecy, Superstition and Brooklyn.  The rep did not really seem to know much about scotch aside from the canned BS they taught her in a quick class.  Stuff like "the numbered Juras are from the sunny side of the island while the named ones are from the dark and stormy side" strikes me as marketing.  Other statements like "Nobody lives on Jura who doesn't work for the distillery" just struck me as wrong.  I mean, how do they get power?  What if there's a fire?  Are there no grocers or doctors or mechanics?  My favorite of the night was "Jura is the only scotch whisky made on an island."  When I asked about Skye, Orkney, Mull, Arran and oh yeah, Islay, she didn't have an answer.  On the plus side, I won a copy of Richard Patterson's book by knowing he was the Dalmore's Master Blender.  So there's that.  I'm going to transcribe my notes directly, so you may notice as I get progressively intoxicated.  Lots of free scotch will do that to you.

40% ABV, $39.99 USD

Nose: - Maple, Sugar, Caramel, Vanilla, Oak, Licorice

Palate:- Subtle.  Sweet and oaky, dried apricots.  Raisins

Finish:- Sherry, sweet oak, potpourri.  Slightly offensive and acidic, and turns sweet as it lingers.

Overall:- 82/100

40% ABV, $84.99 USD

Nose: - More maple, burnt sugar, orange peel, honey

Palate:- Malt, lemon, more orange, raisins, toffee.  God, there's a lot of orange.

Finish:- Spicy, sweet, lingering.  Sugar, cream, sherry.  More subdued that the 12, but not by much.

Overall:- 78/100 - I was very underwhelmed by this one.  Especially when you consider the price.  That's kind of my thoughts for the rest of the range, actually.

43% ABV, $149.99 USD

Nose: - Dark chocolate, oak, rich fruit, caramel

Palate:- Tobacco, caramel, burnt sugar, sherry

Finish:- Long, spicy sweet with subtle sherry.  Still not "big", but the closest to "full" of what we tasted.

Overall:- 80/100  - I'd be interested to try this in a cask strength.  It loses at lot at the 43%.

Tasters Note:  A bunch of jackasses are smoking cigars at the table next to us.  My ability to nose is significantly diminished.  Also, the food has come, and they didn't think to concern themselves with whether or not is pairs with whisky.  The just brought taquitos and firecracker shrimp.  I'll still try.  The brand rep also mentioned that Dalmore has "rights" to the word cigar, and they are the only distillery to make scotch whisky with that in the name.

44% ABV  $119.99 USD

Nose: - Leather, oak, red wine, alcohol.  Also, hints of cigar smoke, taquitos and firecracker shrimp.  ?_?

Palate:- Surprisingly sweet given the nose.  Oak, maraschino cherry, oak, roasted coffee.

Finish:- Turns from sweet to a lingering burn, again a surprise.  More chocolate, subtle cinnamon and nutmeg.

Overall:- 80/100 - I always wondered about this.  Why would you smoke a cigar and pair it with a $150 USD Whisky?  Doesn't the cigar kill your tastebuds?  The people smoking one at the neighboring table sure had a negative impact on my experience with this dram.

40% ABV, $199.99 USD  

Fun note:  the brand rep asked if anyone know the age of JW Blue.  She said that since there isn't one, all we really know is that it's greater than 3 because they sell it as "scotch".  The King Alexander is at least 18 years old, so at the same price, it's a steal!  This was also when the brand rep mentioned that someone from the Dalmore clan saved King Alexander from a stag in 1263, so that's why this is the King Alexander whisky, and why Dalmore is the only brand of scotch that has a stag as their logo.  Uhhh...Glenfiddich, anyone???

Nose: - Toffee, malt, port wine, plums, cherries, chocolate, maybe juniper?  There's a lot going on here, and my so-called "skills" aren't what they were when we started this little adventure an hour and a half ago.

Palate:- Sweet and sharp.  Really sweet.  I'm craving some damn peat at this point, and the night has been lacking thus far.  Plums, cinnamon, caramel, apples, coffee, the kitchen sink, this is a complex little bugger. Oak and sherry, too.

Finish:- I originally marked this as an 82/100, but the finish alone changed that for me.  It's big and long.  Sweet, spicy, fruity, and good.  Like no alcohol burn.  Maybe because it's bottled at 40%, but it's still pretty smooth.

Overall:-  87/100

I'll write up the Jura ones in the next couple days.  Thanks for reading!



My favorite of the night was "Jura is the only scotch whisky made on an island." When I asked about Skye, Orkney, Mull, Arran and oh yeah, Islay, she didn't have an answer.

Ummm, if it was made in Scotland, it was made on an island.

Personally, I really like the Dalmore 12, its been my goto-bottle for a while now.  I've not tried the others, save the Cigar Malt.  In my opinion, it does actually go well with a cigar, the burn you mentioned seems to go away if you've been smoking a cigar while drinking it.  Just my 2 cents.



Plums, cinnamon, caramel, apples, coffee, the kitchen sink.

Care to expand?



It's an idiom.  I know you're a UK-er, so maybe it's not common over there.  Maybe you are familiar with it and I'm just a shitty writer.  I was also fairly buzzed at this point, and I transcribed my notes exactly.

I meant that there was a lot going on in this dram, and it was getting hard to discern individual tastes. 



Prophecy, Superstition and Brooklyn.

Spoiler Alert:  Save your money and buy some QC.



I find Dalmore (18 yo) to have this sickly, artificial sweetness to it... 

Nice reviews though!



Sounds like a frustrating evening, but hey free scotch is free scotch!

And I love how you have to pay 4x their boilerplate scotch to get an extra 3% alcohol.



I can understand some of the poor reviews on /r/scotch, but not Dalmore. 

This seems to have turned into some sort of fanboyism and groupthink. Dalmore is fantastic, specifically the 15 year which IMO is one of the best value and price combinations out there. 



I prefer the Corry to the Uigie, too.  It's maltier.

I really didn't read any of the existing reviews before I went to the tasting.  I just didn't think it was that great.  And to say that the 15 is one of the best price / value combinations out there is something I whole-heartedly disagree with.  Shit, you could buy two bottles of the twelve and be in a better place.

Now, I really like big, peaty, smoky Islays, so I'm sure that influences my opinion, but that's what a review is, isn't it?

Other drams I'd prefer to the Dalmore 15 that are the same price or less:

I'm sure there's more, but I get annoyed when people tell me my OPINION is wrong.



I apologize I was responding only to /r/Cockdieselallthetime and didn't mean to claim your opinion was wrong...

Everybody likes their own thing, I was just trying to convey to him that it's not worth assuming everyones opinion is swayed by popular opinion because a) you never know and b) you'd never trust anything.

For what it's worth i'll be following your posts/reviews moving forward because i'm a big fan of big, peaty, smoky scotch myself!  Cheers!



I've had the pleasure to strike one more Malt off my "try these ASAP" list by buying a bottle of the Dalmore 1263 King Alexander III. There has been a lot of talk about the name of this spirit in previous reviews all over the web and I'm not a big fan of artificial mysteries, so I'll come straight to the facts.

The first, most obvious fact is that the King Alexander III is a NAS, multi-cask whiskey, so we can only guess what's inside it. According to what I've read and my own tasting of a dram, there are probably mid-age ex-bourbon, Oloroso Sherry, Madeira, Marsala, Port Wine and Cabernet casks involved, giving the whiskey a wine-ish nose and feeling. At only 40 vol.% ABV, I'll gladly refrain from adding water and write as I taste:

I do like fruity whiskies and my first favorite was the Dalmore 12 Years when I started my journey, so I consider myself open for what Dalmore can provide. I do think that the King Alexander III could be even greater with 43 or more vol.%, so I let some room to the top. For now, this is a nice whiskey; not even overpriced, given its cask depth.



not a big fan of artificial mysteries

Are you a big fan of artificial colorings?



"I could care less if its pale as a ghost"

So you do care?



Well hello there Scotchit! I?ve shown off quite a few bottles of recent so I thought it was about damn time I started reviewing them.  I?ve decided to start with what has been my favorite dram of the past two years, I believe this is bottle no.9 if I?m not mistaken.

Colour: Dark copper (although we all know this is due to the overuse of E150a).

Nose: Cooked apples, raisins and vanilla prominent with moist figs, Nicaraguan coffee and sweet tobacco subtly hidden away.

Palate: Plums, almonds and a subtle kick of pepper quickly follow the prominent rich cream and honey. Each dram so elegantly complex it leaves you almost overwhelmed.

Finish: Orange and sweet spice arrive first, followed shortly by wood smoke and slight earth.  Left longer, certain wine notes begin to emerge, certainly resembling that close to the heavier, darker wines such as perhaps a Barolo.  

Although on Dalmore?s behalf, I find the use of colouring and severe dilution disgraceful, I cannot help but simply adore this dram. I am yet to find another whisky that presents such a complex and full character as the Alexander III, it is yet to fail me. 95/100.



I am yet to find another whisky that presents such a complex and full character as the Alexander III.

Keep tastin' then! Haha all jokes aside I'm glad you really dug this whisky. I've never tried it but I have been very unimpressed with the other standard expressions. What I'd really love to try would be a Dalmore IB without too many years on the clock: an indie testament to what the spirit is capable of before Richard & Whyte water it down and add a bucket of e150.

PS: nice Linn glass! I'm a Rega fan boy myself, but hot damn Linn make good gear. Please tell me you got this glass as part of that Highland Park & Linn partnership with the 25,000 pound turntable & 40yo HP? (http://www.engadget.com/2013/09/20/linn-sondek-highland-park-anniversary-edition/)



Yes, I have one of the 40.

Well that's that. Let's be friends!



Whisky clouds at alcohol levels under 46%, which many whisky producers have decided is a negative quality and needed to be corrected. In order to do so, they super-chill the whisky and filter out the fatty oils and compounds that cause the cloudiness. 

It doesn't necessarily affect the nose, but the palate and finish are quite muted as a lot of the flavorful compounds have been removed.

You won't see a high-ABV whisky that's chill-filtered because it's simply not necessary, so chill-filtration is synonymous with watered-down whisky, which is seen as a negative by many people. 



Certainly! Could I please have "Easy on the peat, heavy on the sherry"

Thanks



Good to hear more positive things about Dalmore, some times I feel rather alone here in my absolute love for the 18, can't wait to give this one a try.

I do agree with you though on the colouring and dilution but if the taste is good then....can you really argue?



You are certainly not alone when it comes to having a passion for Dalmore, there are at least... the two of us. 

The only reason I bring up the ABV, CF and colouring is because it's due to these traits that we stand so alone. If Dalmore could see this themselves, their expansion would be quick and vast I'm sure.



I'm not sure I agree. I would certainly be more pleased, yes. But would the mainstream markets be?

We're a small part of the scotch market here on Reddit, and we are..let's be honest, snobs. The presentation Dalmore does however is exceptionally good, the bottles look just lovely and I imagine that accounts for a large part of their revenue in the greater, less snobbish markets. Or rather, among the amateur snobs who believe a dark colour is a sign of quality.

I work in sales so it's difficult for me not to be realistic, depressing as it is. You don't understand how stupid humanity is until you start working in sales or customer service.



I understand the implications for the main market would be nil, and I probably should have been more detailed. I specifically meant us, the snob market, as you so beautifully put it. 

When you are as big a name as Dalmore, you have standards to keep, and all these little "tweaks" certainly create a product that is much closer to being standardised across the 100,000 barrels you use.

Alas, I see not why they couldn't give us snobs what we really want. I dream of seeing a limited release KAIII bottled at 46% and NCF. But until then, to the independents I turn.



The problem as i see it with them bringing out a ncf 46% bottling is that it basically admits that they could make their whisky better, but dont to suit the mainstream. 

In actual fact if you think we're the whisky snobs then you dont know some of dalmore's customers very well. Those ?20k bottles that get laughed at on here do sell, but as soon as they release something that is sold on the  basis that its nfc and 46% , it puts a huge dent in the collectability of all those collectors items that are now seen as not as good as this new stuff.



By 20k bottles, I imagine you're talking about the constellation series. Unless Dalmore suddenly expand on the current bottle line, I can't imagine one series affecting another. Take Astrum for example, it was released before the constellation series came about and is forty years old. When the older constellation bottles were released did the Astrum drop in value? No, it doubled.

I could understand your argument if we were talking about a bottle released into the normal bottle line that was higher ABV and NCF. But a special edition, limited bottling NCF? I'd imagine it would cause no significant effect on sales of the other bottles in the long run. The same argument is valid as to why Dalmore allow independent bottlings of their whiskies.



Happy Hump Day, scotchit! Thatguy here with a recap of the Dalmore/Jura tasting I attended last week. I?m not a huge fan of the Dalmore line as the only expressions I like enough to buy are quite expensive, but it was 20 bucks to get in. Totally worth it. These reviews aren?t nearly as detailed as I normally prefer to write as we were tasting in farily rapid succession, but they still capture the essence of each expression. Without further ado...

The Dalmore 12 Year ? 40% alcohol by volume ? 750 ml

Aged in 50% American White oak and 50% Oloroso sherry casks

An entry level 40% ABV malt. Nothing special

SCORE: 82/100

The Dalmore 15 Year ? 40% alcohol by volume ? 750 ml

Aged in casks that held 3 different sherries from the Gonzales Byass: Apostoles, Amoroso, and Matusalem

In my opinion, The Dalmore 15 year is by far, the weakest of the entire range. Way too much orange, not enough??not orange? flavors. This one is just not there.

SCORE: 77/100

The Dalmore 18 Year ? 43% alcohol by volume ? 750 ml

Aged in white oak for 14 years, then 3 years in Matusalem sherry butts, followed by a marrying period of 12 months in a insitu sherry butt.

Finally! A Dalmore that?s bottled at higher than 40% ABV! I really like this Dalmore. It?s like a grown up version of the 12 year old. Unfortunately, it?s more than 3 times the price of the 12, so that pretty much puts an end to my hopes of owning it. I?ll never be able to justify that price. It?s even more expensive than The Macallan 18 year! Too bad. Nonetheless, it?s a very good whisky.

SCORE: 87/100

The Dalmore Cigar Malt (NAS) ? 44% alcohol by volume ? 750 ml

Aged 15-17 years in 70% Oloroso sherry butts and 30% American white oak. This is the new version of the Cigar Malt. I never got to try the old one before it was discontinued.

The Cigar Malt was my favorite of the evening. In my opinion, it?s better than the 18 year and is $20-25 cheaper. Maybe, just maybe I?ll buy this one for myself sometime. At the price, I could never see myself actually killing my tastebuds with a cigar while drinking this. Interestingly enough, I actually use the cheaper Dalmore 12 as my cigar-pairing whisky of choice.

SCORE: 89/100

The Dalmore Castle Leod (NAS) ? 46% alcohol by volume ? 750 ml

Distilled in 1995, The Dalmore Castle Leod is initially matured in American white oak and Spanish sherry wood before spending a final 18 months in barriques from (as they put it) ?a legendary 1st Cru class Bordeaux chateau".

This is a limited edition bottling that?s probably pretty hard to find at this point. It?s over $150 and isn?t worth that in my opinion. I found this one to be on par with the 18 year.

SCORE: 87/100

The Dalmore King Alexander III ? 40% [ :( ] alcohol by volume ? 750 ml

The Dalmore King Alexander III is touted as the only single malt aged in 6 different woods: French cabernet Sauvignon barriques, Mediterranean Madeira drums, Matusalem Sherry butts, Marsala barrels, Port pipes, and Kentucky bourbon barrels.

This is a really cool whisky to try. I?m sure my inability to pick out individual flavors was compounded by the fact that I had sampled a lot of whisky by this point in the evening. The fact that this is bottled at 40% ABV makes my heart hurt. I?m guessing that this could easily be a 92 or 93/100 if they bottled it at 46%. Oh well. Save your $200+ for something else.

SCORE: 88/100



Great reviews, glad to see that the Cigar Malt is a descent tipple. That's high on my shopping list and this has given me a little more confidence after trying the 12.

Surprised to see the 12year old getting an 82. I'm working on a bottle of that at the moment and it's so boring :(

You really think that it's going to be a power-house, manly whisky when you look at a bottle of Dalmore, but so far seems like its all show.



I get the feeling that I am one of the few people around here that absolutely loves Dalmore 15. 

Also, the Cigar Malt pairs quite well with a cigar. I got a bottle of this over the summer while I was in Edinburgh. You're definitely not ruining the experience with one. Just pick a cigar lighter in flavor. 



So my review of the Dalmore 15 really left me wanting. As luck would have it, though, Dalmore included a 50ml sample of 1263 King Alexander III. Since I've read great things about it and the 15 didn't satisfy, I gave this one a shot.

1263 King Alexander III by The Dalmore- Review #5

Price: N/A

Color: Whisky.

Nose: Juicy black cherries and chocolate. Mouth-watering toffee, crisp green apples, and a hint of Dalmore's ever-present plums and oranges.

Palate: Winter spices, mouth-coating sweet toffee. Coffee beans, apple turnovers, and a bit more citrus.

Finish: Crisp cranberry, apples, and spices. Hot and long, the spices linger in the most pleasant way.

94/100

Wow. This is absolutely fantastic. Bold and welcoming at the same time, sweet and spicy. This is exactly what I was looking for. I'm perplexed as to how Dalmore can put out such a weak 15-year-old offering and this wondrous liquid. The inclusion of the sample almost makes up for the disappointing 15. If I didn't already have a very special bottle on order for my 10th review, I would pick up a full bottle in a heartbeat.

I've rated this one point below the Balvenie Caribbean Cask 14 mainly due to value per dollar. At nearly 4 times the price I just can't justify rating them equally. 



What does the 1263 mean? And did you have to pay much for the sample? Given that the bottle is so expensive...

Edit: Wait, I figured the 1263 out already, I was thinking sample numbering, but it's a year :-)



Yeah, it's just part of the name-- it was "crafted to honour the act of saving Scotland's King in 1263."

The sample was free with a bottle of Dalmore 15 which cost $69.99.

Based on overall quality I'd say the bottle of 15 cost me $30 and the King Alexander cost me $39.99. (And the latter was worth it!)



this is: Dalmore's King Alexander III, which is a 16yo single malt that has been (and I'm poaching these words) "matured in ex-bourbon casks, Matusalem oloroso sherry wood, Madeira barrels, Marsala casks, port pipes and Cabernet Sauvignon wine barriques." That sounds rather epic. I have yet to try a Dalmore that I have enjoyed. Will this be the one? 40% ABV, $230.  

color: dark red.  

nose: sherry (etc) bomb... raisin, plum, ginger, lacquer, cinnamon, and dry gin.  

taste: dry & very light... watered-down red wine and stewed apple.  

finish: rich fruit... strong cherry, sherry, oak, pear, peach, red grape, and apple. Even drier.  

conclusions: a fruit and wood bomb. This one is tough to score -- it was too light and weak for it's own good (I didn't know the ABV before dramming, but I could tell it was quite low) however, it has a rich, tongue-coating finish that is pretty great. Welp, I think they've found a wood combination that works over at D-more. Going to say: 87/100



I'm just waiting for the day they release a travel retail exclusive cask strength version. 

"One return to spain please".

"Anywhere specific Sir?"

"...Which Airport has the biggest duty free?"



Hi Scotchit! Did you know that Dalmore was the first malt whisky ever that was exported? 1870 to Australia.

Well I'm sure you've heard of

The Dalmore King Alexander III

Highlands, 40%

color: auburn

nose: leather, blackcurrant, floral, raisins, sherry, caramel, plums, blood oranges, cinnamon, vanilla, almonds

taste: pop corn, sherry, oak, plums, red fruits, caramel, green apples, lemon, dark grapes, almonds

finish: ginger, cloves, licorice, hint of cinnamon and nutmeg, winey, lingers

Rich, aromatic nose. Prominent oak and a certain acidity on the palate. Spicy finish. Very rich.

This is with no doubt a good one. But it's a malt you really notice the ABV is too low and it suffers from it. Make it cask strength and I'll buy it again.

84/100



Thanks.

No I don't mind, really, but I wonder why I'm asked this regularly. I mean you can google it and find out in no time what you would have to pay in your region (sic!)...

I paid 150?.



I wonder why I'm asked this regularly. I mean you can google it and find out in no time what you would have to pay in your region (sic!)...

This is true, but prices can vary widely from one store to another, even within the same state.  Also many stores don't list their inventory online either.



I s'pose it's the never ending "I could get this for xxx amount, I wonder if he paid more/less than that, and should I pull the trigger?"  I drool over this bottle every time I'm at the store that has it :) well this bottle and the cigar malt.

Thanks



Hi everyone,

Here?s a great tactic: You make up/find some Game of Thrones-esque story about royalty/hunting/other expensive sounding stuff. You find a load of Dalmore that has come from every different type of barrel/cask/butt and drum you can find and you blend the hell out of it like a boss. You put said whisky in a bottle, which you put in a fancy box but water down to 40% and add loads of colouring. Do NOT put an age statement on it for God?s sake.

Most importantly, you slap a big price on it to make sure that people think old whisky must be in it and you get maximum profits.

?

And there you pretty much have the recipe for Dalmore King Alexander III in my mind. 

I tried to put all of that aside for a moment to actually just assess the whisky.

?

Dalmore King Alexander III 40%

Colour: Amber (But coloured I think)

Body: Medium

Nose: A fruity style of course but with lots of bakery notes too. Baking, rising dough, cinnamon, blackberry and blueberry, a yeasty note.

Taste: Soft, light and ?smooth? arrival, then more fruity with blackcurrant, freshly made dough, cinnamon, baker?s yeast, building unbalanced oak coming through and going into the finish.

Finish: Medium length. Stays alive actually with fruity dark berry and oak.

I was surprised with this actually. I was expecting a complete mess with the flavours all over the place but actually it?s not bad. However, a not bad whisky for ?150 is just a joke really.

71/100

?

Review #244



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/dalmoreking

Network Average: 76.0

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



Hi everyone,

Here?s a great tactic: You make up/find some Game of Thrones-esque story about royalty/hunting/other expensive sounding stuff. You find a load of Dalmore that has come from every different type of barrel/cask/butt and drum you can find and you blend the hell out of it like a boss. You put said whisky in a bottle, which you put in a fancy box but water down to 40% and add loads of colouring. Do NOT put an age statement on it for God?s sake.

Most importantly, you slap a big price on it to make sure that people think old whisky must be in it and you get maximum profits.

?

And there you pretty much have the recipe for Dalmore King Alexander III in my mind. 

I tried to put all of that aside for a moment to actually just assess the whisky.

?

Dalmore King Alexander III 40%

Colour: Amber (But coloured I think)

Body: Medium

Nose: A fruity style of course but with lots of bakery notes too. Baking, rising dough, cinnamon, blackberry and blueberry, a yeasty note.

Taste: Soft, light and ?smooth? arrival, then more fruity with blackcurrant, freshly made dough, cinnamon, baker?s yeast, building unbalanced oak coming through and going into the finish.

Finish: Medium length. Stays alive actually with fruity dark berry and oak.

I was surprised with this actually. I was expecting a complete mess with the flavours all over the place but actually it?s not bad. However, a not bad whisky for ?150 is just a joke really.

71/100

?

Review #244



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/dalmoreking

Network Average: 76.0

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



Travel Tip #1: If your friends move to another country, consider exploring that country. A lot.

When our friends moved out to the UK, if was a given that we'd be visiting them. First, because we like to be around them. And second, well, because we always wanted to go to the UK and they could have us over.

As a thank you, we picked them up some stuff.

Travel Tip #2: If you are from North American and going to the UK, Zipper bags are shitty over here. Bring a bunch. Especially if you're a drug dealer.

Other than the Ziploc bags, I bought my buddy the Master of Malt Highland set as a thank you. And in my pathetic state after getting home, he offered to split the Dalmore King Alexander III with me, which was very nice of him.

I don't usually go near Dalmore. They are a Highland, they go well with cigars (I don't smoke), they use American Oak and Sherry and have a few different ones that confuse me. I've had the Old Malt Cask one and didn't enjoy it at all. Not to mention that the website mentions its part of Clan MacKenzie own it, yet it was started by an old drug dealer is somewhat missed.

Oh well. According to the website, this is made of "Whiskies matured in ex-bourbon casks, Matusalem oloroso sherry wood, Madeira barrels, Marsala casks, port pipes and Cabernet Sauvignon wine barriques are brought together in perfect harmony". That seems quite unique.

Region: Highland

Abv: 40%

Price: N/A in Ontario

Colour: Burnt Sienna

Nose: Cough syrup, cherry pie, blackberry, little sherry, lime zest, floral

Initial blast of cherry and cough syrup takes its time, though the low Abv. is making this not too pungent. Or at the forefront. Gave it some time to open up, yet it didn't give me much more.

Taste: Brown sugar, cigar, orange, smoke, caramel, coffee, honey, gooseberry

Lots of caramel and coffee on the taste. It really does make up for the nose being out there. Different flavours swirl about, and this is quite nice.

Finish: Blueberries, nectarine, brown butter, floral, leeks

Simple yet nice finish, with the earthiness blending with the sweetness throughout. 

Conclusion: According to the box tasting notes (which I read afterward) there was suppose to be chocolate throughout, yet I didn't really pick it up. I think the issue here is that it's so low of Abv.. Given the mixture of different finishes on each whisky, they really should have left this at a higher strength. In the end I think they missed out on 5 different nice whiskies instead of one overpriced yet not terrible whisky.

83/100

Scotch review #90, Highland review #12



Dalmore seems a bit shitty, IMO. 

Too much hype, special releases and trying to be Macallan.



I had an IB one that was 50% Abv. awhile ago. 

TL;DR: It was too young and didn't have the same care as other Dalmores for the finish, and thus had some rough, rough edges in it.



It's not that it's shitty, per se. The quality is there, it's just not to the point where the price is.

Wait for my other Dalmore reviews (I'm about 20 reviews behind at this point), as I didn't find them to be bad, just over priced.



I really want to like Dalmore, basically due to the bottle. I always want that sweet stag looking at me when I open my whisky cabinet. I just can't buy any more...

I think the 12 and the 15 that I've tried are decent, but nowhere near the quality I'd expect from that price. Higher ABV (whilst same price) would give them a huge thumbs up, but I'd still have to try before I buy in the future on their offerings...



Used a stove that was a little scary, given it was gas. Didn't die from that, though close. The freezer was full of ice forever, so that was scary. The dryer took quite awhile and their version of "dry" is.... different than mine. Washing machine didn't leave dirt, so I can't complain there.

There's probably a lot of red tape behind the appliances, and the fact that most people have just gotten used to shite appliances. Add to that a lot of places having really, really bad electricity ratings and the old, low energy, bad ones sell quite well, due to a cheap price.



Does anybody know why they keep making whiskies:

and still charging them as premium?

Or the people just buy them because the bottle looks nice?



Because they can.

It's cheaper to produce, and a product is worth what people will pay for it.