Deanston Virgin Oak, 46.3%, $45 for the bottle (very cheap around these parts). I had never heard of Deanston before a few weeks ago when I tried this at a whiskey show. I wasn't overly impressed with it, and was about to move on, when I noticed that it was going for that little. So I gave it a second try, and found it was pretty good value for the price. It's a highland scotch technically, but it really at the border between the highland and lowland regions. Sitting just 35km away from Glasgow and the Auchentoshan distillery, it's hard to really qualify it as a "highland" scotch.

Nose: Dried raisins, citrus, almonds. It's very fruity and light, not much "alcohol tickle" (unlike the Tomatin 12 I reviewed yesterday). Overall, pretty tame for a scotch, particularly with a higher ABV.
Colour: Extremely pale yellow. One of the palest I have seen except for a horrible "silver" scotch I tried years ago that was basically a 1 or 2 year old single malt that was absolutely colourless.
Taste: The oak is strong with this one. It's very oakey, but unfortunately there isn't a whole lot more there. What's there is nice, but I'd just like more complexity or variety. There's a bit of citrus, no smoke, no peat, no nuttiness. It's pretty one-dimensional.
Finish: Almost non-existent. A bit burny, but not too bad. Its flavour doesn't linger very much.

It's far from a bad scotch, and at this price it's actually attractive. But honestly, I would spend the extra $5-10 and get a bottle of Strathisla 12, Aberlour 10, or Aberfeldy 12. Is it better than Glenlivet 12 or Glenfiddich 12? Sure. And it's cheaper and potentially more interesting too. But it is a bit of a one trick poney, and the fact that it relies so heavily on the oak flavour doesn't make it a good contender for a "gateway scotch" or "introductory scotch": it's way too specific for that. So it sits in this weird spot where it's inexpensive, but also incredibly specific in taste, and I don't think it's doing itself any favours. Maybe if it was aged for an extra 2-5 years it would become something more complex and interesting. But who knows as it's a NAS scotch, which has been a new trend largely promoted by the Scotch Whiskey Association. Thanks SWA, you bunch of twats!

70/100.



I just posted this (more or less) in another review today of this one, but I just tried this myself and also felt the the youthfulness really hurt aspects of this whisky (my wife's word for it was "clunky," which I think sums it up quite well). A bit disappointing because Deanston often does stuff right, but I think you're right that this one needs some more time.

Also, I really hope Compass Box's next whisky is labeled "Thanks SWA, You Bunch of Twats" over their recent row with them over labeling transparency.



Hello Scotchit, RustyPipes here with my first review.

Deanston - Virgin Oak Finished
Un-Chill Filtered
46.3% ABV
No age listed
Ingredients: Water, Malted Barley, Yeast (and yes this is listed on the bottle)
$26.99 Consumer Beverage - Milwaukee, WI

I bought this bottle thinking it was completely virgin oak aged, not just finished in virgin oak.  I can definitely say it was not in a new barrel very long from the color and lack of oak notes.  Will try to be fair but was expecting something other than what I got.

Gets points for great price, good ABV, and richness.  Not overly complex, pretty strait forward, but not weak by any means.  I remember loving the Deanston 12 I had many moons ago, would need to revisit it side by side with this to decide if the 12 is worth the extra $25.

Total 86/100

-edited for new point system-



Deanston Virgin Oak, Highlands, NAS, 46% ABV

I really, really want to like Deanston.  I think it?s very cool that their distillery is self-sustained, running on green hydro-electricity that is generated on site, and of course I like that they eschew artificial coloring and chill filtration for their entire range.  The fact that they use organic barley for their whisky is pretty swell too, but even good ingredients can be ruined by a subpar chef, and I worry that this is what has happened with their entry-level NAS expression, the Virgin Oak.

I saw this bottle on the shelf while I was visiting my parents for Thanksgiving, and it?s not a bottle I see on the shelves of the shops I tend to frequent back in the Pacific Northwest, so I decided to take a flier on it.  As it so happens, a few other folks on this sub recently posted reviews of this bottle in which they came away unimpressed, and I thought I would help add to the wisdom of the crowds here, because while it?s a bottle that I?ll still probably eventually empty, I too came away ultimately disappointed.

Nose: Lots (and I do mean lots) of lemon zest and other citrusy, fruity notes: orange, kiwi, and tangerine are what jump out to me.  Not picking up much else from this, very one-dimensional.

Body: Here?s where Deanston shines?you don?t expect a cheap, entry-level NAS product to wow you on the mouthfeel, but the Virgin Oak definitely does, and it feels?not tastes, but feels?like a more expensive product.

Palate: The citrus from the nose carries over just as you?d expect it to, and is joined by a big dollop of honey, cream, and lavender.  This is really a spring/summer scotch, so I'm going to probably end up saving this bottle for a few months and tell myself that's why (as opposed to it being a mediocre bottle, which it is).

Finish: Rather unpleasant.  Its youth comes out in a big way here, and that?s not a good thing.  The initial silkiness of the palate gives way to a serious jolt of malt (my wife described it as ?clunky,? and that?s the best word I can think of to describe it), along with an uncomfortable amount of burn, and the combination of the two just drowns out any of the pleasant flavors I was previously enjoying.

Price: USD $35 when I was home visiting the parentals for Thanksgiving.  Obviously, am not expecting a lot at that price point, but considering the care with which Deanston approaches its process and ingredients, I was hoping for more.  At that price point, it is far behind stylistically similar bottles like the Glen Grant Major?s Reserve, Speyburn 10, and Glenmorangie 10.

Overall: The enjoyable initial palate and full mouthfeel keep the Virgin Oak from falling into C- or D grade territory, but it still clearly needs more time in the casks to take some bite out of that fiery finish.  I get that stocks are low for a lot of distillers, but this isn?t the way to solve that.  76/100



Finish: Short. The palate disappears quickly with a hint of spice (and ginger?) and you're left with a dry floral mouth.

Price: ??? 

Rating: 81/100 

???% ABV   

Thanks again to /u/rmill3r for the sample!  It's my first mystery dram so I was a little worried about butchering it too badly.  Feels like a 40%. It's smooth and easy to drink, though the finish is a little dry for my tastes.  Not very complex, but a nice summer whisky, light and airy.   I only tried it neat, but I did save some for after I know what it is so I might add a little water to that sample. Pretty sure I've never had this before.  If I had to guess, Edradour or Glen Moray?



and thought either Deanston Virgin Oak

ding, ding, ding



Sorry it took so long....Here it is.

46.3% and NCF...I was surprised you didn't get "burning oak" out of the nose or palate. With that finish it's just filled with oak notes. Cheers, though! Glad we could provide mystery drams for each other. 



Greetings, r/scotch! Rmill3r here with another whisky review. This was a purchase I simply could not say no to (and you'll see why in the info below). Everything on thet box and label point to "MUST BUY," but let's see what happens when you try to look past the glimmer of hope in the form of a craft presentation . . .  

Deanston Virgin Oak, Highland Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 46.3% abv; natural color; un-chill filtered; "nothing added but hard work and determination"; $29.99 for a 750mL bottle locally; enjoyed a neat dram

Atmosphere: Currently leaning back and catching up on the new episode of Breaking Bad. I also just received a few 5-packs of cigars for my newly seasoned humidor and am looking forward to smoking a Vindicator after this review. 

Color: Pale straw yellow

Nosing: Citrus, lemon peel, tart cake, apple pie, cinnamon stix, vanilla ice cream, honey over warm biscuits, and ginger. Overall, all good stuff in the nose but it's overpowering; there's this spicy and yeast tone to this nose that is too much.

Tasting: Fresh oaky rush, cinnamon, rich spices, young, some honey. A rather light palate, but with a hard woody bite.

Finish: Fairly long, burning, oak, cinnamon, yeast

Score: 74/100

Much like Ardmore, everything on the package screams quality, attention to detail, and a hard-working single malt. But, sadly, just like Ardmore it's not a simple game of mathematics. Two plus two does not always equal four, and high alcohol content, natural color, and no chill-filtration does not always equal good whisky. Deanston gets major points for doing things the right way, though. Not only do they bottle their single malts at craft presentation, but the distillery is currently the only self-sufficient one in Scotland, running entirely on hydro-electricity. Go you, Deanston! 

If you check out Deanston Distillery's Wiki page, there's a lot of great information about its origins as an innovative mill in the 19th century and its relatively new transformation into a whisky distillery. Deanston has only been in the whisky business since 1967 and was even briefly shut down in the 80s. So I guess you could say they've had a rocky start, and it's even more commendable that they still produce their spirit with such integrity. 

Still . . . the whisky speaks for itself and Deanston Virgin Oak is young, biting, hot, and a little too dense. Then again, it's only $25 (at box stores like Total Wine, that is). So how can you beat that if your on a budget? 

Not on a budget, you say? Just sample it, tip your hat to Deanston's virtue and wish em the best. 



No, particles in whisky are not normal, even whisky that isn't chill-filtered.

I think that may just be dust on the outside of the glass, though.



Review # 138

Deanston Virgin Oak 46.3%  $29 Applejack Liquors

Color: Amber +.5, Chardonnay, Slow Wide Tears and Legs.

Nose: Lavender Soap, Bitter Citrus (Lemon), Grassy, Warm Barley, Young Ethanol, Stale Lemon Bars, Camomile Tea, Sawdust, hint of Lowland Minerals, Pancakes, Shortbread. 

Mouth Feel: Oily, Warm Spice, then heats up and goes Bitter.

Taste: Pepper, Olive Oil, Lemon Zest, Clover, Honey, Powdered Sugar, Dry Oak, hint of Tree Nuts (Almonds), Sour Green Grape, a bit of hot Ethanol.

Finish: Dry Oak Back in, White Pepper, Yellow Grapefruit, Dry Grass (Hay), Subtle Metallic Tinge, Yellow Grapefruit Zest.

With Water:  Nose: Citrus pops out more, Dry Barley and Grass, Granny Smith Apple, Honey and Almonds return, Ginger Root, Toasted Marshmallow.

Taste: A bit of Bitter White Wine, Back into Oak, White Pepper, Mustard Seed.

Score:  Nose:  21,  Taste:  20,  Finish:  21,  Balance:  21,   Total: 83

Warm, Oaky, not bad for an inexpensive whisky, but a bit on the sharp and bitter side, tastes young. The The bitter soapy notes looses it?s favor for me.



Deanston Virgin Oak

Colour: Light, watery, gold.

Nose: Green apple, pears, pineapple, sour fruits.

Palate:  Apples, white wine, copper, oregano, nutmeg.

Finish: White sugar, basil, tin.

I find this whisky to be quite harsh and young tasting.  I'm not a fan of the metallic flavours, nor am I a fan of the strange spice notes that come through.  This reminds me of a cross between the Glenlivet 12 and Glenfiddich 12, but it isn't as good as either of those.  Water helps take a bit of the edge off, but doesn't save this scotch from mediocrity.  I could see fans of rye, or Canadian whisky possibly liking this, but as a scotch, I find it really lacks.

46.3% abv, finished in American virgin oak, non-chill filtered, natural colour (I think).

65/100



Greetings Scotchit! No long preamble today, can't be bothered. Tonight I'm tasting a sample of Deanston Virgin Oak. I've had one Deanston before, thought it was bad. Is this?

Let's find out!

Deanston Virgin Oak Finish
Highland, 46.3% ABV, NCF, E150?, 60ml purchased sample

Nose: Sharp and biting. Cut grass and yeasty malt. Bourbony acrid corn. Barrel char. Pineapple and lemons. Acetone. 

Hmm, tough one. There's a lot of off-notes, but it's proving really difficult to get detailed notes on the ones that aren't off. Some Highland-y lemony, malty stuff is in there as well, so it's not all bad.

Taste: Prickly mouthfeel, some oiliness. Lightly bitter. Yeasty malt and grass. Barrel char and oak. Caramel. Nutty, walnuts? Light lemon. Slight acetone.

Something still off here, but a lot more pleasant - some caramel notes and what I'm putting down as nuttiness, but could be something else.

Finish: Medium length, mild. Drying. Caramel. Barrel char. Yeasty malt. Orange zest. 

Rather good caramelly, almost bourbon-y notes (makes sense, considering the virgin oak). Not great, but not a "why won't it end?!" finish either.

Summary: I mean, it's alright. The nose is too harsh, the palate is a bit bitter, the finish is a bit too drying. It won't win awards, but it won't make you hate life after drinking it either. 

At this point, having tried the main 2 standard offerings from them, I think I can safely write off Deanston as one of those distilleries that just needs to do something to make better whisky. Much like Bowmore, they could probably make much better whisky if they changed out their master blender.

Want to hear a fun fact? The owners of Deanston, Burn Stewart, also own Tobermory (and hence, Ledaig) - the distillery that makes the worst single malt I've ever tasted. They also own Bunnahabhain, but I haven't tried enough from them to say anything conclusive about the distillery.

So in conclusion: not that good, you should probably avoid it despite the decent presentation.

Score: 68/100
Not good.

Most Similar To: Deanston 12, Tobermory 10, Glengoyne 12.

Buy Again? No.



At our /r/canadawhisky meetup at my condo, we had a group of guys out including /u/jolarbear /u/devoz /u/kinohead and /u/tomodera. Everyone brought some stuff and we all shared and drank and nerded out. This post includes all of the scotches I tasted that night. 

you can find the writeup of some worldwhiskies reviewed that night HERE

first up is the Glendronach 15 Tawny Port Finish. /u/jolarbear  brought it and said he didn't like it very much. since i'm a sucker for a port finish and am currently working on a port series (of which this technically is a part), i was excited to try it

Appearance: copper orange. Great legs

Nose: dark dried fruit, raisins, chocolate

Taste: tons of dark fruit, prunes, berries, typical tobacco I get from port, tannic, winey, dry. 

Finish: long, chocolatey and fruity. 

Score: 89/100

I like this a lot, but I'm not surprised as I love port finishes so call me biased. Great way to finish glendronach spirit. 

next up was a bottle brought by /u/kinohead, Craigellachie 13. I've been curious about this one at the LCBO but never pulled the trigger. Glad I get to try it. 

Appearance: yellow gold

Nose: standard speyside. Grainy

Taste: rotten grass, rotten bananas, astringent, salty

Finish: sharp, gross, too long. 

Score: 58/100

nose was ok, palate was really bad. This is either an off bottle or I really dislike this spirit. Will not be buying

and next was the Deanston Virgin Oak, another that has me curious given its low price point at the LCBO. graciously provided by /u/kinohead

Appearance: very light, like yellow apple juice

Nose: sweet, fruity, grainy

Taste: grain, oak, bitter, weird. Doesn't really taste very scotch-like, but I'm quite a few drams in so my palate is messed up. 

Finish: forgot finish notes

Score: 69/100

strange. Hardly scotch-like. It had some interesting notes but I wouldn't buy it. 

finally, /u/tomodera continued to delight with some sample bottles he had brought along. The ballentines regular is not very good, but I wondered if age did anything for the blend. Bear in mind this was my second last review of the night, so I wasn'tt very perceptive at this point

Appearance: orange gold

Nose: blendy, grainy

Taste: grain, corn, spirity ew.

Finish: short thankfully

Score: 55/100

gross. Spirity? how is this 21 years old? I can't read my hand written notes, but what I can interpret is "what kind of rchery eastesw lew" yeah.. Not sure I should still have been drinking :P 

but thanks boys for coming over! It was a ton of fun!

bonus review! Someone also brought scotch chocolates!

Appearance: brown

Nose: chocolate

Taste: chocolate, alcohol

Finish: chocolate

Score: n/a/100

I love chocolate. Could benefit from a higher ABV. 



To aid mobile users, I'll link small subreddits not yet linked in the comments

/r/canadawhisky: a spot for Canadian whisky fans to set up swaps/meet-ups, discuss whisky from Canada and around the world, and bitch about our prices (Ontario mostly)

I am a bot | Mail BotOwner | To aid mobile users, I'll link small subreddits not yet linked in the comments | Code | Ban - Help



Thanks again to /u/kinohead for bringing this dram.

Awhile ago I was recommended Deanston Virgin Oak due to similarities it had with Lowland whiskies I love.

And boy do I love Lowland whiskies. But let's not get off track just yet. This isn't a Lowland. It's a Highland. Which means it'll get to Scotland after me. And something about my love.

Moving on...

So I was recommended this dram. By who? No idea. Someone. They said I should try it. So I am.

That's right folks, you too could become a faceless person in one of my posts by randomly recommending a dram I'll try, if for no other reason than I think I should.

So, what's special about this dram? Well, it's NAS, so it's fitting into all the other whiskies that are coming out. So that's not special.

It's made from Certified Organic products. Nice. Not something that is at the top of my list. Or near my list, if I'm being honest. But nice. I assume it's okay ingredients from that. Or at least they want me to believe.

The distillery uses Hydro Energy. Okay, that has my attention. I'm always happy to support green energy methods, assuming it is non-impact hydro energy. Still, pretty cool. Guessing they don't use peat smoke then.

The Virgin Casks this is finished in comes from Kentucky. Kinda cool. May be annoying to bourbon fans, but interesting. I like interesting finishes.

No colour added. Also nice. But let's get past all of this: It's an inexpensive dram, and that's pretty cool, so maybe I should just try it.

Let's see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: $49.95 (CAD) at the LCBO

Region: Highland

Abv: 46.3%

Colour: 5Y 9/4

Nose: Cantaloupe, peach, spirit, lemon, spruce

Citrus. In a word: Lots of it. Little raw, though I'm guessing that comes from the NAS years it was in the barrel.

See what I did there? No? Well fuck you too.

Anyway, this has a spruce element to it that sticks out. Little odd among the fruit.

Taste: Oak, caramel, butter, cashew, funk

Oaky. Cashew-y. Butter-y. Nice, yet there's a funk to it that I can't get rid of, and my feets keep moving to its too.

That hurt to write. On the one hand, it's a nice, if light dram. On the other hand, the funk isn't helping, and it's lighter than I'd want a dram at this Abv to be. 

Finish: Currant, mushroom, pepper, coconut

Earthy. None of the flavours mesh well together at all. Even the coconut and currant seem to be at odds. The pepper makes it hot, the mushroom slimy.

It's well developed but muddled, which is too bad.

Conclusion: Okay nose, though I think ti needs more time than a finish of Virgin oak to develop. The taste is good, though there's a funk. And the finish has developed nice flavours, but they are all not complimentary.

So the basic thing is: This is better than the other Deanston I have had. I think this is an okay start to something. Needs some work, maybe some more time, or just maybe needs to grow a little more. Or maybe Virgin Oak doesn't work with Deanston, I don't know. I just know this one isn't for me.

71/100

Scotch review #382, Highland review #73, Whisky Network review #587

Other Deanston review:

Link to my website with all my reviews



I bought a bottle of this to try, it was very cheap.

Luckily my oven was also quite dirty so it wasn't a total waste of money.



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.48   

Standard Deviation = 10.14  

Skewness = -2.71842 

Kurtosis = 11.07619 

Median = 80 

IQR = 8.5



My buddy and I bought a bottle of this not too long ago and quite enjoyed it. I was pleasantly surprised. 

Certainly not a favorite or one I would really want to have again (Mainly because I'd rather buy other bottles to try), but it wasn't a disappointment. 