Nose:  Slightly salty and yeasty.  Buttered and honeyed buscuits, saltines, orange rind, barley soup, fresh ground ginger, and lemon rind.  Hay and dead leaves as well, rather autumny and not terribly sweet or fruity.  Bits of vanilla poke through but this is no Glenmorangie.

Taste:  Light but not terribly sweet.  Vanilla, slightly honeyed, lemon, orange, and malty cereals.  More hay-like and grassy than floral.  Sea salt and saltine crackers, but not seaweedy at all.

Finish:  Again light, but rather clingy for something so young and lowlandy.  Fairly salty, with vanilla oak and buttered buscuit.  Some honeyed barley sugar.  Again a bit yeasty... grain comes through but barley grain (not grain whisky).  Fairly dry with bits of lemon and even some of that bitter green flesh on a watermelon.  Water really blossoms this dram with citrus fruit and vanilla so don't be bashful!

Final notes:  Lowlandy, but somewhat coastal too.  Not very sweet, very grainy and grassy with slight citrus notes.  I don't taste any sherry cask in here.  If you like that light lowlandy thing this might be your cup of tea, but I find it rather bready.  It's a change of pace from my usual sherry-monster though!  With very light bourbon wood whiskies I find water does lots of good.  Don't be bashful, there's nothing wrong with a 40% or below whisky, and this is one of those whiskies that coaxes out beautiful sweet vanilla and citrus without feeling too watered down.  It's all part of the NCF thing going on!

Final score:  85/100



I also found that water was this whisky's best friend.

Nice review!



Thank you for your review.

Also, that score scale in the image is slick.



Color: Pale Straw 

Nose: Medium-Light and Dry. Grassy and Floral tones, Oak, Apples, Apple-Vinegar, Orange or Apricot Marmalade, Malt and Toast, Very Light Peat. Only light Alcohol despite the 46,3%.

Taste: Much sweeter than I expected after the dry nose. Very smooth with only a light Alcohol bite. Honey, Malt, Light Spices (Ginger and Cinnamon), Lemon Zest, Green Apples and a bit of Salt.

Finish: Short and dry. Grassy and Herbs. Nuts, Lemon, Oak. Touch of Honey.

With a couple of drops of water you will get more Fruit and also Honey and a bit of Toffee or Butterscotch on the Nose. The Palate does not change a whole lot but the Finish gets Sweeter and the Honey and Salty tones last a bit longer. This Single Malt accepts some water.

Rating:  81.5  (out of 100)

Nose 21? Taste 21 ? Finish 19 ? Overall 20.5

General Remarks: The Deanston Distillery looks more like a school building or army barracks but in fact it?s an old Cotton Mill. It?s located close to the city of Doune and started operations in the 1960?s. It is owned by Burn Stewart Distillers Ltd that also owns Bunnahabhain and Tobermory. Its main market is the USA. A lot of the Deanston production is destined for the blend Scottish Leader. Before bottling the casks that carry the Deanston 12 are married together for a couple of weeks extra in fresh Oak to increase sweetness. The Deanston 12 I?m reviewing here is Un-Chill filtered and bottled at 46,3%. This is the policy of the Distillery since 2009. Before that this Single Malt was chill filtered and bottled at 40%.

Drinking Experience Straight: Good

Conclusion: The Deanston 12 is a relatively light dram despite its 46,3%. Almost a Lowland whisky. I can see this as a very nice aperitif on a beautiful day in spring. Maybe even with a little ice. It?s too light perhaps for considering it as one of my day-to-day sipping whiskies. I do believe however that Deanston is going in the right direction and hope they will maintain or even improve their Un-Chill filtered high proof expressions. 



ROUND TWO - Session Two - a more or less Speyside selection

REVIEW #44: Glenmorangie 10 year - The Original - 40% abv 

Nose: Apple, Jolly Rancher Sweetness, Perfume, Raisin, Orange Marmelade

Taste: Honey, sweet, perfume, floral, some kind of bread? rye?, weaker taste than the nose.

Finish: Mashed potatoes? in a good way.  Finish is weaker than the taste, which was weaker than the nose.

Score: 85/100

Buy a full bottle? Nah

Closing Thoughts: It?s good.  Nothing to write home about.  The nose is interesting but it fades a bit with each step.  Might be a little too perfumey.

REVIEW #45: Glenmorangie 12 year Lasanta - 46% abv 

Nose: Vanilla pudding, dried fruit, dark brown sugar, slightly burnt syrup, bread, overripe apple, creme brulee, bananas foster

Taste: Sweet, sour, buttery, oak, honey, raisins, vanilla cream

Finish: Oak, semi-drying, butter, honey

Score: 86/100

Buy a full bottle? Nah

Closing Thoughts: It?s good, but it?s not a rock star.  It gets one point more than the 10 year simply because I like sherry notes.

REVIEW #46: Bladnoch 20 year - 43% abv 

Nose: Whoa. Cucumber Melon, citrus, smells like it was picked fresh out of a vegetable garden.

Taste: Honey, vegetal, lettuce, fresh, green, crisp, sour melon, watermelon rind, herb, apple

Finish: Tiny bit of smoke in the back, vegetal, green, herbal, citrus, honey, pepper spiciness, crisp

Score: 87/100

Buy a full bottle? No

Closing Thoughts: Wow, really interesting single malt.  I?ve never tasted one so vegetal before, in a good way.  Intriguing.  A lot of fun puzzling this one out.

REVIEW #47: Deanston 12 year - 46.3% abv 

Nose: Honey, dried apricot, something floral, yellow rose?, caramel corn, cracker jacks, salted caramel

Taste: Honey, dried apricot, mellow oakiness, sweet, tiny bit of sourness, but good.

Finish: Lingering sweetness, rice chex cereal, sake, warmth

Score: 87/100

Buy a full bottle? Maybe

Closing Thoughts: This is a really easy drinking dram.  Nice and gentle and approachable.  A great beginner malt.  The Dalwhinnie 15 is on the list of Scotchit beginner malts, but I think this is a better candidate.

REVIEW #48: Clynelish 14 year - 46% abv 

Nose: Orange vanilla cream chocolate, almonds

Taste: Butterscotch, salted caramel, orange cream, ginger, creamy, raisins, roses, a little bit of fruitcake, cherry coke / dr. pepper cola

Finish: Toffee, honey, white pepper, vanilla, transitions into oakiness

Score: 89/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Wow, delicious.  Balanced. Complex. Hits all the right notes.  

REVIEW #49: Balblair 15 year ?1999? - 46% abv 

Nose: Fudge, fruity, sherry, coffee?, honeysuckle, grapefruit, chives

Taste: Oily mouthfeel, creamy, salted caramel, apple cider, cinnamon, nutmeg, dark, toasted almonds.

Finish: Lasting, delicious, spices, oak, fudge, cocoa powder

Score: 90/100

Buy a full bottle? YES!

Closing Thoughts: Fantastic, delicious, complex, awesome.  Wow! A great one.

REVIEW #50: Glencadam 21 year - 46% abv 

Nose: Ripe banana, orange pith, salty toffee, raisin, dried apricot, coconut, cream, honey, banana bread with butter spread on it, spices

Taste: Dried apricot, orange cream, brown sugar, vanilla pudding, spices, slight cinnamon

Finish: Cinnamon, sweetness, maple syrupy, delicious, like dessert, tea

Score: 90/100

Buy a full bottle? YES!

Closing Thoughts: Another fantastic dram.  I love the dried/candied citrus combined with vanilla and cinnamon.  An excellent whisky.

REVIEW #51: Balvenie 15 year Single Barrel (bourbon matured) - 47.8% abv 

Nose: Vanilla, honey, orange peel, toasted coconut, white vinegar?, apricot, yellow apple, cantaloupe, melon

Taste: Sugar cookie dough, honey, sweet, floral, fresh banana, sweet bread, tea

Finish: Mouth watering, honey, sweet, floral, baker?s chocolate.

Score: 90/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: This is an excellent whisky, but add $12 and you can get the Balvenie 15 year Single Barrel Sherry Cask, which is better.  It?s a close thing, but I?ve learned that I prefer Sherry casks over Bourbon.

REVIEW #52: Balvenie 21 year PortWood - 40% abv 

Nose: Vanilla, plum, blackberry jam, chocolate covered candied orange

Taste: Orange marmelade, prunes

Finish: Prunes, cocoa powder

Score: 91/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes, but it?s too expensive

Closing Thoughts: This is a mellow, sit by the fire, look back on your life kind of whisky.  It?s subtle and delicious and well made.  I?d love to own a bottle, but don?t see myself paying $200 for one just yet.

TO BE CONTINUED?



Deanston is another Burn Stewart distillery which was recently given a craft makeover, like the previously reviewed  Ledaig 10. Let's see how this un-chillfiltered, 12 year old highlander tastes!

Deanston 12

Color: Amber -2 

ABV: 46.3%

Aroma Neat:

Light Honey, Sweet Malt Grist/Cereal Grains, Florality, Pollen, Toffee (slightly buttery), Biscuity/Bready, Dough, Yeast, Soft Vanilla, Fruit Juices (peach, pear, very softly), Aloe, Fresh Linen.

Very, very clean smelling whisky. It's full of baked good, flowers, honey and lots of vanilla. I'd guess that this is probably exclusively from ex-bourbon casks. It's very lightly fruity as well.

Aroma Water:

Hot Cereal/Cream of Barley, Raw Vanilla, Hay, Dry Grasses, Chalk, Mineral Water, Dough, Lumber/Sawdust, Baked Apples (slight), Cinnamon Sticks (slight).

Smells like an evening a barley field, or maybe a bakery... Very pleasing either way. 

Taste Neat:

Oak, Medium Tannins, Vanilla, Fresh Malt, Raw Honey, Spicy Cloves, Toasted Grains, Bread/Pretzels, Barrel Char.

Composed, slightly prickly arrival. Certainly the wood influence is very strong, making this come across as a very "modern" style whisky. In several ways I'm reminded of Glenmorangie Astar, though this is more tannic and less vanilla-forward. Many of the same players are on the field, though.

Taste Water:

Dry Vanilla, Old Oak, Barrel Char/Toasted Wood (light), Clove/Ginger/Nutmeg (slightly), Waxy Grains/Flax Seed, Creamy Banana (hint)

Lots of wood influence again, but a bit more open than neat. The flavors are a little more spread out and identifiable. There is more spice too. 

Finish:

Waxy Oak, Dry Grains, Dry Vanilla, Water Crackers, Tin (slight).

Dry finish of medium duration. There are no big surprises here, aside from a subtle metallic note, which is enjoyable. 

Conclusion:

Clean and fresh nose that is practially a tutorial on the ingedients going into whisky.

Woody and waxy palate with a coating mouthfeel. Takes water extremely well. 

Finish similar to the palate.

Rating: 83/100

Deanston 12 is a very straighforward whisky. To my mind, it's not very complex, but that doesn't mean it's not well made. In fact, this Deanston comes across as a very relaxing whisky. I don't think it would offend any whisky drinker and it has a very smooth, satisfying mouthfeel to accompany its pastoral flavor profile. A simple, fufilling, and afforadable single malt. 

Josh 

blog



Maybe a bit. I think the word is out that new version is a marked improvement. 

Thanks!



Greetings Scotchit. For my third review today, I have another sample I picked up from the Good Spirits Co. in Glasgow. I've never heard of Deanston, but I'm automatically biased against unknown Highlands distilleries since I've yet to really be impressed by them. I will give props on presentation - NCF, no E150, 46% ABV is a damn good thing.

Let's dive in and see how well expectations match reality. By the way, I'm trying out an expectation field, just so you know what I think I'm going to get.

Review #47: Deanston 12
Highlands, 46.3% ABV, unchillfiltered, natural colour, bourbon aged, 50ml sample

Expectation: Standard unsherried highland fruity nose, leading into bitter finish. Low on complexity, weak mouthfeel.

Nose: sour citrus, malt, yeast, mushroom, bitter oak, cut grass

Well, that's not very inviting. Lots of herbal, grassy notes surround a central citrus/green apple core. It's very Tobermory, which is a shame because I hate Tobermory. Apparently, Deanston are owned by the same people who own Tobermory, they might share the same master blender (who really loves grass)?

Taste: sour citrus, sweet malt, overripe pears, vanilla, damp earth, alcohol sting, bitter oak

Prickly, but not due to spiciness - alcohol shows through a lot. Citrus and pears provide the fruit backbone (predictably), with some malt and vanilla notes to back them up. All that is fine, but there's also an earthy, grassy note still there that I dislike.

Finish: long and prickly, green pepper, mildly bitter, sour malted barley, grass

Grassy and spicy. Lasts a long time, but not in a good way. 

Summary: Honestly, this is Tobermory, but they seem to have accidentally mislabeled the bottle. The similarity is uncanny. I don't really get the strategy from Burn Stewart on not trying to diversify their flavour profiles, but I don't really think it's working out. 

Score: 60/100
Avoid.



Yeah, had no idea what to expect when I bought it, I just saw it and had never tried it. 

I just wanted all the samples. =P



I mean, you gotta feel for them, though. They're trying, but at this point it's probably just the still that is causing their spirit to taste funky, and that's a big investment to change.

I feel more sympathy towards people who try to do it right and fail than for people who do it wrong and succeed (Glenfiddich, Macallan).



After loving the Deanston 18, I picked up a sample of the 12 in hopes that its similar to its older brother.  This is aged for 12 years in ex-Bourbon casks.  Bottled at 46.3% ABV.  Non-chill filtered.

?

Nose:  Sea salt.  Toffee.  Lemons.

Palate:  Medium rich mouthfeel.  Lemon sherbert.  Carmel and toffee.  Very nutty.  Almonds and pecans.

Finish:  Medium short finish.  Continues to get more nutty and earthy.  Some oak spice comes out as well.  A bit hot and spicy on the end.

Score: 84/100

?

This is quite good.  I enjoy the simple but tasty profile.  Nice mouthfeel as well.  The finish is kind of short and hot.  But nowhere near as good as the 18 year.  I wouldn't mind having this as a daily drinker if I could find it for under $40.  However its nearly twice that around here and totally not worth it.

?

/u/review_bot 'Deanston'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Deanston:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



Here it's priced only slightly higher than the standard fair 12 year olds, still found it a little too hot and unbalanced for my tastes. 

Agree about the 18 though, truly fantastic. 



I don?t see too many minis worth trying in the stores around town, one finally got some scotches that I haven?t tried, so I grabbed this Deanston and a Bunnahabhain 12 to finally check them out.

?

Deanston 12yr NCF - 46.3%

?

Average score to date: 81

?

If you like a fruit profile in a dram, this is your jam. The fruit isn?t sugary sweet, and is quite in balance with the rest of the flavors. I?ve had a run of fruity scotches that were overly sweet, and this one toes the line pretty well. It?s great bang for the buck at the price, and I would likely buy this over the 15yr Glens.

?

Would I rebuy a bottle? Yep.



This is a somewhat budget friendly entry level (for their age stated stuff, anyway) from Deanston. I?m not expecting greatness here, but hopefully a worthy alternative to the other Glenwhatever 12?s of the world.

46.3%, non chill filtered.

Nose - Well this is fairly nice. Caramel apples, powdered ginger, black pepper, creamy vanilla, a bit bready/yeasty. Kind of basic and standard, but rather pleasant.

Taste - Caramel apples, honey, and vanilla lead off, with the ginger and black pepper notes coming in as it develops. Apple note remains strong throughout. Gets kind of cream soda-y towards the finish. Full, thick feel to it.

Finish - The ginger and black pepper notes get bigger here, with increasing drying oak and malt notes as it lingers. The sweet caramel apple and vanilla notes are there, but a bit more in the background.

This was surprisingly nice, but in a kind of standard way. I do like that the lack of chill filtration and, I think, better quality casks lead to a fuller flavored whisky where many of the standard Glen?s can feel somewhat neutered by 40/43% and being chill filtered to death to create the desired smoothness, but as Deanston doesn?t have the name recognition I guess they needed to try to make a tastier whisky. I?m not sure I?ll get a bottle anytime soon as I tend to go big or go home these days (when I?m whisky shopping at least), but if you?re looking for an entry level single malt you could do much worse.

86/100



Hey, nice review. It's interesting that you found enjoyment from deanston, I really struggled to enjoy it. I felt it was flat with no real character and body. But hey, that's what's wonderful about whisky: we don't all like the same one so there is plenty to go round.

Just something I noticed in your review: there isn't any trend for the Whiskies to be chill-filtered or not depending on whether it is a 'Glen-' whisky. The decision for filtration simply comes down to the distillery and how they want to produce their whisky. Non-chill filtration leads to a hazy whisky when it is diluted past 46% and no one wants to but a whisky that is cloudy in the bottle (although it will taste the same as if it were not cloudy). To drop the ABV to 40% and keep the whisky clear has to follow chill filtration and a distillery will do this to maximise the number of bottles to come out of a cask: more bottles, more money. 

I won't disagree or agree in the affect (effect?) that chill filtration has in the flavour, just noting that chill filtration isn't a trend based on the name of the distillery. 

PS check out benromach 10 for a chill-filtered whisky that'll blow your mind. Three wood maturation, light smokiness, caramel, chocolate, smoke, leather, and the finish will last for days. 



Just something I noticed in your review: there isn't any trend for the Whiskies to be chill-filtered or not depending on whether it is a 'Glen-' whisky.

I'm well aware. That said, many of the big names I had in mind (Glenfiddich, Glenlivet, even Glenfarclas' lower end to an extent, etc) have a tendency to do that, and that was my way of lumping them together. 



Hi everyone,

Another quick review from me today. It?s Deanston, a pretty generic highlander. I wasn?t that excited to hunt down a dram of this, especially seeing as I don?t particularly like the stablemates: Bunnahabhain and Tobermory (although I love Ledaig). 

So what made me buy a miniature of this? Well, Ian Buxton?s 101 Whiskies did. I don?t feel the need to desperately try to taste everything in it any more but still have the slight urge if I see something.

?

Deanston 12 46.3%

Colour: Gold

Body: Light

Nose: Bright and creamy. Very fresh, malty, creamy cereal, milk, a little vanilla. Fruity- Red and green apple, some lemon citrus, some sour lime and burnt oak. A green sappy oak note grows.

Taste: Creamy arrival, then fruity esters- Red apple. A little green sappy oak. Sour development- Lots of sour green apple then creamy oak. A little burnt pastry and burnt nuts at times.

Finish: Medium length. Creamy malt and bitter burnt oak.

Married in new oak. I think this displays the worse side of virgin oak, the green sappy side. Not really a fan and I probably won?t be seeking out many in the future.

65/100

?

Thanks for reading!

Review #265



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/deanston

Network Average: 75.4

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



I thought this was ex-bourbon cask? The NAS Virgin Oak is the one finished in new casks (and I can tell you it took a lot of effort finding ways to get rid of that bottle of dreck).

I also bought a sample of the 12, and found it uninspired, though much better than the wet cardboard Virgin Oak. Their 18 isn't half bad, but way overpriced for what it is.

It feels like Deanston is searching for an identity.



The Smurfs were an odd collective. Here they are, this homo-genderous society that only has a new gender based on their enemy creating one to undermine them. That's a little insane, isn't it? They know of females, and are about to die out due to not being able to breed, and then a crazy person gives them a new chance.

The other odd thing is they all were specialized in some kooky way. And that means some of them were utterly useless, like whichever Smurf was into train spotting.

Whisky is similar. There are whiskies that will be not that great. Not that good, but not that great. And that leads us to Deanston 12. This comes recommended in multiple books, talked about quite a bit, and even talked about in the reviews.
So it should be a brainy Smurf, not a Bongo Smurf. However this is the older release, so it's still chill filtered, and a lower Abv. However the recommendations may be talking about the older one, so let's see how it tastes.

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Highland

Abv: 40%

Colour: Orange/Brown

Nose: Coffee, vanilla, peach, pepper, orange, faint

Nice coffee flavour, however like I said above, it's all really faint. I'm nosing in a proper glencairn and still having trouble.

Almost need to pump it directly to my nose to get it.

Taste: Peach drink, pepper, mineral water, cheap coffee

It's all quite cheap tasting, to be truth. And I shouldn't be thinking something fancy is cheap, more so that it's a luxury item.

Not much complexity either.

Finish: Cassia buds, peach, earthy, ginger, light orange

Flavourful finish, though still suffers from some lightness. Again, the finish it the best part in a whisky, however it's too little too late.

Conclusion: This is more so a wood polishing Smurf than anything else. Yeah, we need to polish wood, and not in that awesome Las Vegas way, but this is just kinda... meh.

It's weak, boring, and not really worth it. I hope the new one is better, and will try to find it. I don't really blame them for replacing it. The slightly higher score comes from an okay finish.

66/100

Scotch review #277, Highland review #42, Whisky network review #413

101 Whiskies to try before you die #52

1001 Whiskies to taste before you die review #205



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.96

Standard Deviation =    10.10

Skewness = -2.71887

Kurtosis =  11.10484

Median =    80

IQR = 9