Hello Scotchit, I?m here with my 15th review. This is of the Finlaggan Old Reserve, the Islay single malt that no one knows which distillery it comes from.

Finlaggan Old Reserve

If I lived in California and could get this from Trader Joes for the mythical $18 it would be hard for me to buy anything else.  At $29 it is an absolute value.  I can see why some think this is 6 to 8 year-old Lagavulin. Since I have had the Lagavulin 16 recently I can taste the similarities.  If you really like Smoke and Peat, this dram is for you.  If I was able to taste more of an ocean saltiness that would of put this dram on the 90s for me. 



Correct, its supposedly a closley gaurded secret.  Here is their spiel on their site. http://www.vintagemaltwhisky.com/product-finlaggan.html

Ralfy, as always, does a nice job of explaining it.  http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ysNGV1FWP0U

I have read 2 theories about Vintage Malt Whisky Co. and Flinnlaggan.  One, it comes from a single Islay distillary and only that distrillary.  Two,  They bottle whatever Islay they can get cheapest for that year.  I'm in the 1st camp after tasting this.  It tastes like a young spirity Lagavulin to me.



Hello Scotchit-

I decided to do a little experiment regarding one of my favorite peated single malts Finlaggan Old Reserve.  First, a little background.

As many of you know (or may not) Finlaggan is a Islay Single Malt and the bottler Vintage Malt Whiskey Co. closely guards the secret to which distillery Finlaggan comes from.  When I first bought a bottle in 2012 the prodominant guesses to where Finlaggan came from was either Lagavilin or Caol Ila.  Ralfy goes into explaination on his vlog of Finlaggan.  He later goes into further detail of the confusion of source in the Finlaggan Cask Strength review.  There are also rumors that the source for the single malt change from year to year.  And most recently I had been reading a Scotchit that Laphroaig is the source.  Which totally surprised me (As I thought this was totally wrong based on the previous bottle I had)  and got me more excited to try my year in planning experiment.

So, when I bought my first Finlaggan Bottle in July 2012 I put aside a sample in a 2oz amber bottle and a year later I planned to compare it to a newly bought 2013 bottle. With the comparison I hoped to shed light on the following questions:

What is the source of the single malt?  Lagavulin, Caol ila, or Laphroaig?

Is the Finlaggan Old Reserve malt completely different between the 2012 and 2013 bottles? Or only slightly different?

Let's do this!

To compare both Finlaggan drams I did the following:

I cleansed my palate with water after switching to the other dram.

First of my 2012 review of Finlaggan Old Reserve:

Color: Chardonnay 

Nose: Smoke and Peat are what the nose is about. There is a sweetness in the background that suggests honey and raisins. There is also morning dew. The nose is very complex in that you have to really concentrate to pick up the background flavors because the peat and smoke dominate. Took me a long time to pick these out.

Taste: Body is medium, thickens nicely. Smoke, peat, cigar tobacco, wood, very subtle sweetness.

Finish: The finish is surprisingly long. Smoke, peat (Do you see a pattern here?), nutty, and dry.

89/100

I sampled 1 oz from my sample amber bottle.  It tasted to me the same as my review written last year.  I love this stuff, I would rate higher even now with the more experience that I have.  When I drank it in 2012 I was in the Lagavulin camp of guessing where the whisky is sourced.  Now that I have had more whiskies under my belt since than I noticed something on the finish.  It reminds me of the dry peaty finish of the Hart Brothers Caol Ila 10 I had a bottle of.  The Mystery depends.

Now, comparing the 2012 sample (Bought at Binnys Schaumburg) with the 2013 bottle of Finlaggan Old Researve (bought at Binnys Glen Ellyn).

The 2013 bottle of Finlaggan:

Color: 0.5+ darker than the 2012 version.  

Nose: The nose is the same, but everything is subdued.  The peat and smoke are there, but they are gentler.  There is also a more of a malty sweet along with a seaweed.

Taste: Body is medium, thickens nicely. Smoke, peat, cigar tobacco, wood, are all there.  But, the taste is more cereal sweetness as well.

Finish: The finish is completely different.  I was shocked.  Not as dry and shorter (medium now).  But, guess what?  I'm tasting laphroaig 10 on the finish.  its more ashy and earthy.

88/100

The 2013 is not as good. But, still a great dram.

After, comparing the 2 Finlaggans I sampled Laphroaig 10 last (because you ALWAYS have Laphroaig last).  I can confirm IMHO that the nose and taste are not Laphroaig in the Finlaggan.  It's completely different to me.  However, there were very strong similarities in the finish on the 2013 Finlaggan and the Laphroaig 10.  So, it looks like Hailchaos may have been onto something in his review.

So, what do I think this all means?

Even though the 2012 and 2013 Finlaggan bottlings were different I think IMHO that the single malt whisky stays the same.  And I think that is Lagavulin.  The 2 things that stayed constant were the nose and taste (The 2013 Having the same notes, but subdued).  And those remind me of the Laga.  So, I don't think Vintage Malt Whiskey Co. changes up the single malt.  What does stump me a bit is the malty sweetness now apparent in the 2013 version.

I do think Vintage Malt Whiskey Co. changes up the casks they use for Finlaggan, depending on price and availability.  Ralfy talked about this in his Finlaggan Cask Strength vlog linked above.  From what I tasted I think may be the 2012 bottling used refilled Caol Illa casks and the 2013 bottling used refilled Laphroaig casks.  Or may be even a mixture?

If you buy Finlaggan many months apart I would treat the bottles as a Small Batch.  They are both going to taste different, but have good quality in my opinion.

I saved 1oz of the 2012 version and will save a sample of the current bottle I have (Its currently in a large amber bottle because of the Cork Devil .  I will compare these with the next bottle I will buy of Finlaggan as well.  Thanks for reading.  I'm looking forward to your thoughts on what I experienced.

Cheers!

edit: formatting



Easy answer to that question.

Liquor and distribution laws governing liquor stores in Wisconsin are extremely restrictive, due to distributor lobbying.

For instance, in Wisconsin every liquor store has to have it's own books and inventory, run like an independent business.  

That means if you have to locations and only sell lets say two bottles of Liquor X a month, you can't buy one case and split the contents between two stores.  Each store has to buy a case.  You can't move inventory between stores.  

If Store A is close to the college and runs out of Keystone Light and Dr. McGillicuddy's you can't simply shift inventory from Store B.  You have to restock from the distributor and wait until Monday, missing most of the weekend sales.

For a business like Binny's, this is total horseshit.  Wisconsin's laws are designed to essentially prevent chains of liquor stores.  So Binny's is better off to keep expanding in Illinois than it is to expand into Wisconsin.

Hope that helps.



It's all about the distributors.

They don't want to have to deal with a big chain where they would  have to discount based on quantity buying/buying power.  Oh, they will spout horseshit about "protecting the independent mom and pop stores" but it's really about being able to protect points of margin.



Greetings, r/scotch! Rmill3r with another whisky review, as I continue in my Islay exploration, this time moving past the blended territory. This sample was courtesy of a swap with /u/Trexid. Thanks for the drink!

Finlaggan Old Reserve, Islay Single Malt Scotch whisky; 40% abv; ~$20 for a 750 mL bottle (according to Trexid's luckily cheap-ass area); enjoyed a neat dram

Atmosphere: Music didn't play such a big role this time around, as I mostly drank this sample in between sessions of playing Dishonored which I finally got at a cheap price! Funny enough, whiskey plays a fairly big role in the beginning of the game. Hmmm...

Color: Quite pale, little sign of coloring, thank you very much

Nosing: Peat blast, sweet vanilla, light smoke, fresh grapes underneath, general spice and fruit, soap, oatmeal, charcoal, slight medicinal, and BBQ chips. 

Tasting: The peat blast again, but as it settles down you get sea salt, some smoke, smoked fruits, stale grain, medicinal 

Finish: Falls rather flat, quick, salt, pretzels 

Score: 83/100

I thought it was interesting when /u/Hailchaos got a mystery sample of this from Trexid as he scored it quite high (power of blind tasting again). My first reaction to Finlaggan was stale, one-note, and uneventful. A little time dragging out this sample gave me something much more interesting, though. 

The big mystery of this Old Reserve is it's origins. As their box proudly proclaims, they keep their resource whisky supply hush-hush. Although I don't know much about Finlaggan, I wonder if they're planning on ever announcing where their whisky comes from with some big, magnanimous reveal, or if they'll just keep it a big mystery--forcing young scotch seekers to buy the bottle for the pure enjoyment of trying to guess where it came from. I would put my money on a very young Lagavulin. You can tell it's young, but it has this slight fruit surrounding it, which I sometimes get from Lagavulin 16 in the form of licorice. I could very well be wrong, but there you go!

Trexid says he got this bottle for around $19 or $20 at a Trader Joe's (god damn my TJ's for not carrying liquor!), and if you can find it at that price, this single malt is more than worth the price of admission. I, on the other hand, can't find this bottle anywhere in my area, cheap or not! But this is especially an excellent introduction to Islay malts if you're looking to explore some more. In fact, I'd say it's as good as it gets for introductions without breaking into the Laphroaig/Ardbeg/Bunnahabhain territory. I'm forced to keep this score down relatively low, though, because of the finish. I milked the sample quite a bit and each dram gave me a rather disappointing after taste; ie., hardly any at all. Still, that "40% abv" is quite misleading; this dram will take you for a bigger ride than you expect.



If Lagavulin are to be believed, it's not theirs. They sell 5% to blending a year, but that's Diageo. 

I haven't had Finlaggan, but if I had to guess, I'd say it's not Ardbeg or Lagavulin, because they're tight with giving their spirit to IBs. A peated Bunnahabhain (they exist, I have an IB in my backpack right now) or Caol Ila would be my guess, but Laphroaig is up there as well.

Of the new makes I tried while on Islay though, Lagavulin is excellent. It's bright and sweet and smokey, where Laphroaig and Bruichladdich were a bit sour. Didn't try Ardbeg, they're not doing those tastings for som reason or other.



Great review! Accurate notes on each section as well, it is a curious malt for sure, I think the young age of the spirit definitely adds some appeal to it and is the misleading part. 

Glad you enjoyed it, let me know if you ever want a full bottle, could easily pick one up at that price. I agree with the finish I think the low ABV is to blame. 

Cheers



Review #88

Finlaggan is an independent bottling with a secret Islay source, speculation as to whom runs the gamut but what really matters is the intrinsic quality, right?! I almost passed on /u/Trexid ?s offer for a sample of this, but I?m very glad I didn?t.

Nose: Bright peat, macadamia nut oil, round charred steak fat, dusty nutmeg and wood glue. Sweet pineapple and mango.

Palate: Dusty leather and bright spicy peat, just like the nose. Toasted sesame oil (very prominent), cashew oil and roasted pistacios (unsalted)? turns to pistachio icecream. Slight white peppercorn bite.

Finish: Smoky and slightly bitter. Absolutely awesome nutty character and earthy peat. Rose and daisy oil, black and white pepper. Dusty, baseball glove leather. Finish really hangs around.

89/100

This stuff REALLY wowed me. I?m not sure which yet, but this is going to be taking over one of the ?regular? spots in my Islay lineup? eh maybe I?ll just add a position. As to which distillery this fine spirit originates from? it?s too mellow to be Laphroaig or Ardbeg. It doesn?t quite feel like a Caol Ila to me, not coastal enough. And although it seems similar to a Campbeltown like Springbank it seems like an unlikely possibility (Since it says Islay right on the label :P). /u/Dworgi made a good point about Lagavulin: 

I just can't see Lagavulin selling their spirit cheap. Ever see an IB of Lag? 

Although Lagavulin seems a likely fit based off of the notes.

My guess? Un-sherried Bunnahabhain.



Great review! I also scored it an 89, I think the youth of this Islay really brings the punchy flavors of smokey peat, nuts and all the notes you described. Octomore is around 5 years right? The youth seems to benefit Islays pretty nicely!

Yeah I keep flip-flopping on the origin of this one as well, with my recent review of Laga16 and then revisiting Finlaggan I was convinced it is Laga after I initially said Laphroaig. The mystery of this one is half the fun I think! I've yet to try a super peaty expression from Bunnahabhain so I've got no comparison there.

Glad you enjoyed it man! :)



wow I read a few great reviews of this scotch. They have it at the Trader Joe's near me.

I think I'll pick a couple up :)



Unknown Islay distillery. 40% ABV.

Score: 80/100

The consensus around here seems to be that this is a young Lagavulin and I agree. The nose is fantastic and really got my hopes up but the rest was a bit lacking. It's not a bad whisky, just kind of weak and watered down. At around $20 it might be worth it if you're on a tight budget but I'd rather pay a little extra for something more robust.

I am curious about the cask strength edition. It's bottled at 58%. Has anyone tried it?



Thanks for the review!

I've been meaning to pick up a bottle of this - and now, it seems like this is going to be my next purchase. I can't get enough of Islay, and $20 sounds great. I guess I'm off to Trader Joes tomorrow....



ABV: 40%

Age: NAS

Price: $19

Bottler: The Vintage Malt Whiskey Company  

Eye: 
Pale gold, almost  pear colored.

Nose:
Rich peat, vanilla, sweet malt and some candied citrus lift out of the glass and pleasantly fill the olfactory. There is a a touch of brine and a very slight herbal and iodine backbone that runs through the nose giving this whisky far more depth than it's $19 price tag would have you think.

Taste:
Peat, vanilla and butterscotch sweetness pairs up with a dose of sweet malt to create sweet and smoky character that I'm an instant fan of. Milky caramel blends with savory salty and grassy notes in the background with a touch of sweet vermouth and overripe orange. Again and again I'm astounded by the depth found in something so cheap. 

Balance, Body & Feel:
Very well balanced with a rich body and smooth silken feel, it?s an easy whiskey to relax and enjoy.

Finish:
Long and winding aftertaste of peat, citrus, caramel, vanilla and malt that fades out to a smoky burnt sweetness like marshmallows charred over a campfire.

Score:
86/100

Overall:
This is one hell of a dram and one hell of a mystery. Soft and full it has a strong malty presence that gives it a youthful quality that is fun and inviting. That maltiness blends well with the smoky, savory and sweet qualities of the whisky and creates a balanced and delightful dram that is perfect for casual sipping



Fuck that. I love Islays and scored this one something like 81. It's decent, but it's not "Islay" peat because there is no such thing. Kilchoman, Ardbeg, Lagavulin, Laphroaig, Bowmore and Caol Ila all do peat in very different ways. 

Just because one guy liked this isn't really a reason to write off Islays.



A few years back we got a case at work without caramel coloring added (it looked like pinot grigio wine). I didn't know much about Scotch at the time and I was afraid customers wouldn't buy a whisky that looked so light. I emailed the home office about the strange color and they replied that it was fine - just missing the E150.  

So I stocked it to the shelf like normal and later on that day a customer came in and bought every single bottle. I'm used to this whisky selling well, but I never see one guy clearing the shelf.  

Does this phenomenon happen often? Has anyone tried this without the coloring? Is there a huge difference in taste? 



Thank you for the review. I've been holding onto a bottle of this for about 6 months now. I found it in my grandfather's house while cleaning it out after he passed. I've been saving it for a special occasion. I know that it's not a WLW or Tun, but I'm going to be celebrating something I wish that he could be here for in the next few weeks and it will make me feel closer to him. That is what can make a good whiskey experience great, in my humble opinion.

Cheers.



Greetings Scotchit! Today a pair of samples, because I have a bunch of Scotch swaps on the go, but no sample bottles to pour them into... Bit of a failure of planning, that. 

Anyway, I've had these samples for a while and always intended to compare the CS and standard versions of Finlaggan eventually. That day is today. How does the reportedly cheapest good Islay fare? Also, can we figure out which distillery made the juice for it?

Let's find out!

Finlaggan Old Reserve
Islay, 40% ABV, CF, E150, 60ml sample

Nose: Grassy peat. Mushrooms. Soggy oak. Mineralic. Herbal, tarragon and basil. Acetone. Dried corn. 

Well, that's definitely a hint and a half... It's a very boggy and herbal peat, so definitely not anything from the south coast (ie. Lagavulin, Ardbeg, Laphroaig). Kilchoman is also out.

Taste: Prickly mouthfeel. Quite thin. Toffee. Sweet malt. Golden syrup. Light citrus. Mineralic. Citrus peels. Slight underlying bitterness. 

Surprisingly nice. For something that costs under ?30 for a bottle, this isn't half offensive. 

Finish: Medium length. Grassy peat. Wood smoke. Sweet malt. Corn.

Again, surprisingly decent. Nothing really jumps out as an off-note, which is good. 

Summary: No joke, this stuff is perfectly decent and drinkable. If you like peat, this is definitely better value than any blend in the same price range. Shockingly good, in fact.  

That said, this kind of grassy peat isn't really my favourite style of peated whisky. I wouldn't buy it personally, but if you like peated Bunnahabhain, Ledaig or Bruichladdich, you should give this a shot.

As for the distillery, I'm almost positive this is a peated Bunnahabhain. It's got the same grassy notes that I get in every peated Bunna I've tried. Age-wise, probably around or under 6 years old. The only other real contender is Bruichladdich, but I figure they have enough supply problems that they'd be unwilling to part with their spirit.

Score: 81/100
Good.

Most Similar To: Ledaig, peated Bunnahabhain, Finlaggan Cask Strength.

Buy Again? No, not for me.

Finlaggan Cask Strength
Islay, 58% ABV, NCF, E150?, 60ml sample

Nose: Strong alcohol. Same as above. Slightly stronger oak. Slightly more mineralic.

Welp, it's the same stuff. Not sure what I expected, really, but I guess that makes sense.

Taste: Prickly mouthfeel. Surprisingly tame alcohol. See above. Slightly more prominent oak. Slightly less sweet.

Yep, still the same as the Old Reserve.

Finish: Longer. See above. Slightly more mineralic. 

And continues to be the same as the Old Reserve.

Summary: So... it's Finlaggan Old Reserve at cask strength. For once, you get what it says on the tin. Is it better? I dunno, do you like cask strength whisky? Because it's the same stuff as the Old Reserve at cask strength.

I really don't know what else to say. It's Old Reserve at cask strength. If the price is right, buy this one, I guess? I still won't, because the profile isn't for me. But hey, you might like it.

Score: 82/100
Extra point for CS!

Most Similar To: Finlaggan Old Reserve.

Buy Again? No, still not for me.

God, it must be hard to be a whisky blender. How do you decide which casks to use if they all smell roughly the same? Do they just smell them to figure out if the cask is crap and vat the ones that aren't? They must do, right?

I mean, these are the same whisky, but they're probably not from the same batch. Which means there should be differences, right? But maybe I just suck.

So yeah, that's my conclusion: they're the same. Buy the CS if you can, because it's CS. 



The other thing that may be happening is the  Vintage Malt Whisky Co. may be changing up what casks they use to mature the spirit (Depending on availability and price).  I was able to do a comparison of a bottles I bought a year apart (I saved a sample.)

I did this because science.  But, also because Hailchaos during his review said that it was Laphroaig during his review of Finlaggin.  And I was like, no way.  But, with the newer bottle of Finlaggan I did notice similarities on the finish between the newer bottle of Finlaggan and Laphroaig.  Change of wood?  Who knows.  All neat stuff.  

I wish the CS version was in the US.  Would love to get that.



costs under ?30  ?15

ftfy



Most Similar To: Finlaggan Old Reserve.

Oh, you :P

I'm bummed when I read "would not buy" reviews unless the whisky is super expensive. Such a waste, when good things exist!



Unknown origin bottle from Islay.  40% ABV.  Leading theory seems to be its a young or lesser quality Lagavulin.  But who really knows.  It may not even always be from the same distillery.  Trader Joes value.

Nose: Lightly smokey peat, cherry cough drops, a bit of sherry

Palate: Medicinal, thin, some smoke, young spirit tasting

Finish: Smoke, ash, blackberry.  Rather short and a bit rough though.

Score: 82/100

Very good QPR (Quality Price Ratio).  Nothing mind blowing by any means.  And a bit disjointed and medicinal.  But if you're looking for something from Islay at a very low price, I don't know of anything better.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  If you've ever been to a Trader Joes you know they have their own thing going on.  Its like the higher end opposite of Aldi's.  I recognize zero products that I'm used to there, which is confusing yet nice.  If that makes sense.  And they have their own Whisky.  One such: Finlaggan Old Reserve Islay 40%

better than expected.  A mystery whisky!  There is no Finlaggan distillery on Islay.  But this is from Islay.  Its also from a singular distillery despite somethings I've read online that its a blend of different Islay whiskies.  It says Single Malt right on the label and by law it must have only come from one distillery.  They keep it a secret though.  Why?  probably because they'd run out immediately if they named it Lagavulin Jr. - Thats my guess after tasting and nosing.  I believe its a young, watered down Lagavulin that has plenty of complexity from its youth.  Maybe 6 years old or 5.  Its very nice too.  My guess is Lagavulin is doing this purely for Trader Joes and doesnt want to tarnish its name. They are known for their 16 and 12 year or older expressions.  They don't do NAS whisky.  But why not put out something younger at a low ABV to collect some easy money?  Limited supply is another clue, since its only at Trader Joes and Binnys.  Lagavulin has never been about super mass production, they are a pretty low Key distillery and you never see Independent Bottles of it.  

besides:  finLAGgan should probably give it away!  The Finlaggan Castle that the bottle is named after is on the North End of Islay and Lagavulin is on the South.   Pretty sure they picked it just because of "lag".  

86/100



I recognize zero products that I'm used to there, which is confusing yet nice. If that makes sense. And they have their own Whisky. One such: Finlaggan Old Reserve Islay 40%

Just to clarify, Trader Joe's doesn't own Finlaggan (I think some readers may be confused).  They just Import it in California.  No other Trader Joes sell Finlaggan except the California stores.  Finlaggan is also imported in Chicago (Binnys, like you said) and on the East Coast (Arlington Wine and Liquor for an example).  It's owned by Vintage Malt Whisky Co.  

I'm glad you enjoyed Finlaggan.  It's one of my favorite value drams.  And I agree that it tastes like Lagavulin Jr. juice to me.  But, tasting it recently I'm also in the camp that they are using casks from different Islay distilleries.   So, using Lagavulin juice and aging it in Caol Illa or Laphroaig casks for an example. 



Oh wow, no wonder. I don't think it's distributed in the US at all, which is why I was so surprised you found it. 

I should tag you as "total fuckin bogan" so I remember. 

That's not totally offensive, is it? Some Australian recently called me a Bogan and it almost seemed like a term of endearment, even though I know the original meaning of the word is something akin to "fucking inbred hick." 



Yeah it's one of those ones you'd only ever find either by accident or through some specialist retailer here, but not overly hard to find. 

Yeah "total fucken bogan" is fine (please take note of 'fucken' which is more fitting with local customs). Also, so you know, in straya (Australia) we calls mates 'cunt' and we call cunts 'mate'. Bogan is essentially what the Scots call 'ned' or Americans might say 'redneck'.



This past week I attended a whisky tasting at Rozner?s Cellar in Kfar Saba. It?s a pretty interesting alcohol shop, they have a fair collection (by Israeli standards) of older whiskies including some real oddities, like a bottle of the Bailie Nicol Jarvie blend. They also hold the occasional tasting, this being the second I?ve attended there.

This time we were tasing a range of peated whiskies from The Vintage Malt Whisky Co. They?re an independent who bottle several single malt whiskies as undisclosed malts under their own labels, with the emphasis on providing accessible, but good quality whiskies. They?re also responsible for a number of regional market specific brands and the very good Cooper?s Choice single cask range.

The whiskies available for tasting were:

? Islay Storm ? A non-age stated undisclosed single malt from Islay, on the lower end of the price point. Most opinions I?ve seen say it?s either a Caol Ila or Bowmore.

? Finlaggan Old Reserve ? Another non-age stated undisclosed single malt from Islay, this is quite a widely available one, also at a budget price.The Finlaggan brand is quite a veteran one and the distillery that it originates from has long been the subject of speculation. Most of the opinions I?ve seen point to Lagavulin or Caol Ila.

? Finlaggan Eilean Mor ? This is an ?enhanced? version of the basic Finlaggan, bottled at 46% ABV instead of 40% and apparently non-chill filtered (doesn?t say on the label, but the importer?s rep doing the tasting said it was and it certainly felt 

? The Ileach ? Another veteran label, named for the term used to refer to someone from Islay. This too is a non-age stated Islay single malt whose origins are hidden, said to be Lagavulin or Bowmore.

? The Ileach Cask Strength ? This version of the Ileach is boosted up to cask strength for extra oomph.

? Blackface Charred Stock ? Named after a prized breed of Scottish sheep, this is a bit of an odd one out here. It?s a blended malt made up primarily of  Talisker, Caol Ila, Glenrothes, Linkwood and Longmorn. The Charred Stock version is so named because it was matured in heavily charred casks.

One thing I must point out is that my notes might not be so good because I had a very hard time concentrating on the whisky. Unfortunately a bunch of guys had showed up to the tasting who had no interest in tasting, the downed the first 3 glasses right at the start, got pretty damn drunk and shouted over the poor guy trying to do the tasting the whole time. Everyone else complained, to which the drunk bastards replied with nothing but insults, but nothing was done about it. Was a really shitty experience.

Islay Storm

Aged 3 years *. 40% ABV.

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Young sweet peat. Socks. Medicinal peat. Cough syrup. Wet wood. Iodine. Salt.

? Palate: Ash. Very ashy. Sour porridge. Bitter citrus. Bitter wood.

? Finish: Medium. Ash. Porridge. Woodspice . Light Vanilla.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: No

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: No

VFM: 3/5

Cheap as it is I?d avoid this one. It was very young, but not very tasty, there were a lot of the bad notes one finds on a young unrefined Islay malt with none of the nice parts. It?s hard to determine a distillery when it lacks much in character but I?d say Caol Ila due to the ashiness, although I?ve seen some very trustworthy sources say that this is a Bowmore.

Finlaggan ?Old? Reserve

Aged 3 years *. 40% ABV.

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Young. Sweet peat. Unbaked Sourdough. Marzipan. Nutmeg. Light wood. Cinnamon.

? Palate: Weak. Light Woodsmoke. Juicy red fruits. Iodine. Ash. Ash ash.

? Finish: Short. Light Smoke. Salt. Dry wood tannins. Cough syrup.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: No

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 3/5

Still not what I?d call a good whisky, but it?s a step above the Islay Storm. For what it is, a budget peated single malt, it?s not terrible, just nothing special. The sweet peat and ash point in the direction of Caol Ila for me, but the finish was kind of Lagavulin-esque. Hmmm?..

Finlaggan Eilean Mor

Aged 3 years *. 46% ABV.

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Sweet peat. Caramel candies. Nutty wood. Slight sulphur notes. Slightly sweet meat.

? Palate: Bitter wood. Marzipan. Meaty peat. Slate. Wood tannins. Woodspice.

? Finish: Medium-long. Meaty peat. Menthol. Cough syrup. More menthol. Unsweetened cocoa.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes 

VFM: 4/5

Now we?re talking. This one had a good deal more complexity and texture to it. Still a young and somewhat unbalanced but drinkable and possibly quite enjoyable. This was quite sweet and rich. Lagavulin is that you?

The Ileach

Aged 3 years *. 40% ABV.

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Sweet glazed meat. Young peat. Fresh bread. Lavender. Wet leaves. Mud.

? Palate: Chocolate milk. Ash. Marzipan. Dry wood. Meh, kind of fizzles out after this.

? Finish: Short. Bitter wood. Ash. Porridge. Stone fruits.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: No

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 3/5

Cheap as it is, this one was kind of boring. The nose starts of kind of promising, but on the palate it just fades away really fast. Hard to speculate here.

The Ileach Cask Strength

Aged 3 years *. 58% ABV. Bottled at cask strength

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Maple syrup. Sulphur dioxide. Maraschino cherries. Charred wood. Charred stone fruits.

? Palate: Dry wood. Maple syrup. Stone fruits. Medicinal peat, but not up front as one might expect. Dry fruit tannins. Pepper.

? Nose: Long. Mineral peat. Bitter wood. Sweet wood spices, like cinnamon-sugar. Salt. Big stone fruit note.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 4/5

Probably the best of the lot. The cask strength really adds a lot to this whisky. It?s still evidently very young and quite brash, but there?s a good melding of flavours here and a decent level of complexity that makes drinking it quite enjoyable. Leaning towards Lagavulin here, but someone else mentioned Bowmore and I might be inclined to believe them.

Blackface Charred Stock

Aged 8 years. 46% ABV.

Nose: Lychee. Garden Peach. Pear in wine space. Rum soaked raisins. Currants. Woodspice.

Palate: Very peachy. Very fruity. Bitter wood tannins. Wood spice. Sticky Raisins.

Finish: Long. Bitter wood. Sweet fruit. Peaches. Yellow cherries. Maple syrup.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 4/5

This was a really nice dessert whisky. The smoke here was more laid back and all the lovely sweet woody notes from the heavily charred casks shone through quite nicely. Note the most complex of whiskies, but very nice, especially as it?s quite cheap.

This would have been an interesting tasting were it not ruined by the drunk bastards who came to get pissed. I didn?t really hear much information from the brand rep and what I?ve written here is largely based on my own knowledge. I have seen these whiskies around quite a bit and was always curious about them, yet wasn?t willing to get a bottle without trying some, and not my curiosity is satisfied.

Reviewed in my blog:
https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2016/12/23/vintage-malt-whisky-company-tasting-at-rozners-cellar/