Review #s 27-30 - Sherry Bomb Horizontal (Aberlour A?bunadh Batch 53, Glenfarclas 105, Glenlivet Nadurra Oloroso, and Macallan Cask Strength with reposts of Glenfarclas 105 - 20 Year Old and GlenDronach Cask Strength Batch 4)

Big thank you to u/xile_ for first convincing me to do this mega horizontal and then providing samples of the Aberlour A?bunadh and the pi?ce de r?sistance Macallan Cask Strength.  Not only do I now believe in ghosts, but I had an amazing time and it?s like you did this with me haha!  Big shoutout to u/WDMC-905 for the sample of the Glenlivet Nadurra Oloroso and for making this review even longer.  I don?t have much to add really as this is getting pretty long.  I do however, want to say that I think this has helped me to not only understand the differences between distilleries and the variations that you can have with sherry matured scotch, but to also conquer my obsession with sherry.

Aberlour A?bunadh Batch 53

?

Rested 10 minutes - Glencairn.

?

Abv: 59.7%

Colour: like an English ale

?

Nose: neat - spices, typical sherry red fruits. Very solid nose and true to form for what I would expect in a Sherry bomb. Hits that comfort spot. Breathing in deeply I get some woody notes, some light toffee sweetness and a hint of a floral perfume. Without water it's very approachable, especially considering this is 59.7%. I was getting this really sweet note that I couldn't identify at first but I think it's candy apple.

With some water the nose is very gentle, the spice and sherry gets toned down so that more of the toffee comes out. Candy Apple turns to cotton candy (that sickly sweet note). 

Taste: neat - very spicy with the same Sherry notes underneath that dominating spice. Some wood. This is a bit closed so I think it would benefit from some water. 

With water the spice is toned down immediately so that more of the sherry comes out. Mouthfeel is slightly syrupy but not as think is I would have thought. With time this becomes very juicy and mouthwatering. Apple juice prominent. 

Finish: oak, spice, dry and toffee. Medium long length and very drying. Very standard but solid finish. 

?

Thoughts: this is everything I would want in a Sherry bomb. Hits all the notes I would expect. Very spicy dram and sometimes it detracts from the great Sherry notes. In Ontario, this is a great value for money. My baseline right now for Sherry bombs would be the GlenDronach Single Casks or GlenDronach Cask Strength. This doesn't hit those levels but it's a good dram, very "text book" and I would be happy to have a bottle if not for all the fantastic Single Casks out there. The juicy notes that started to appear after some time and water really are my favourite part and elevates it above "just a Sherry bomb". 

Score

86/100

Glenfarclas 105

?

Rested 10 minutes - Glencairn with a few drops of water.

?

Abv: 60.0%

Colour: warmed honey

?

Nose: Very strong and syrupy red fruit, like maraschino cherry syrup.  Mulling spice and a bit of sherry funk.  Exactly what you would expect from a sherry bomb, with some more emphasis on the cherry, as opposed to the A?bunadh.

Taste: cherries, vanilla, mulling spices. Surprisingly dry when compared to the nose, which was very syrupy.  With time the cherry syrup is more dominant.

Finish: drying, some oak, cherries, vanilla, spices. 

?

Thoughts: Not complex overall and really hits your textbook sherry notes, but what it does hit, it does so with a vengeance.  I do love the tilt towards cherry.  The selling point for me is the intensity of flavours.  Admittedly, it is a far cry from the more complex sherried drams I?ve had, such as the Glendro Single Casks but I?m not complaining and if price were no issue I?d take this just over the A?bunadh.

Score

86.5/100



Glenfarclas 105 - 20 Year Old

?

Not reposted here to try to keep the length of this review down.  See this link for notes.

Score

87/100*

GlenDronach Cask Strength Batch 4

?

Not reposted here to try to keep the length of this review down. I scored this a bit too low when I initially reviewed it.  I?m officially correcting this here.  See this link for notes only (disregard score posted there).

Score

91/100*

Glenlivet Nadurra Oloroso

?

Rested 20 minutes - Copita

?

Abv: 60.7%

Colour: Amber

?

Nose: More subdued than the 105 with sweet red fruits, simple syrup (but definitely some parallels as well).  Juicy-ness to this that makes my mouth water. Nothing really pops out to me from the nose, but I?m enjoying it regardless. With some water, this opens up a bit more and tones down the sweetness to bring out fresh orchard fruit and some minerality.  

Taste: Lot?s of spiciness here.  Bright red candied fruits and more spiciness.  Cinnamon and other baking spices.  With water, much richer and creamier and even more gentle on the tongue.  

Finish: Really dry sherry and some baking spices.  Very hot on the finish.  Water, dulls the heat a bit (not too much though) but the notes remain the same.  

?

Thoughts: I wasn?t sure what to expect from this, especially considering that when someone asks for a sherry bomb recommendation, usually the A?bunadh, 105 of Glendro CS come up.  Of the three just mentioned, this probably has the least complexity, but damn if I didn?t enjoy this.  I?d probably place this a tier below those three as well, but I think this is also a good chunk cheaper.  Overall, a satisfying dram that doesn?t quite match up well with the big boys.

Score

84/100

Macallan Cask Strength

?

If I?m being frank, this is the one I?ve been dying to do.  It?s been some time since I got this as a sample and I waited until I did the others (to establish a baseline), as well as for a day when I felt my taste buds would be on point.  This does have a lot of hype, but I?ve tried not to read too many reviews in order to remain as unbiased as possible.

Copita

?

Abv: 58.4%

Colour: Tawny - by far the darkest of all the sherry bombs thus far.

?

Nose: Apparently the Cask Strength once carried a 10 year age statement, but with the removal of said statement, I would assume that there is some younger juice here which would explain the youthful burn from the first nosing.  This is not to say at all that this is a bad thing.  Once this settles down a little I get some deep sherry notes.  Very fruity (think cherries and strawberries).  Gentle floral note which lends an air of refinement. Do think this will really benefit from some water to bring it down to a more manageable ABV.  WIth water, it is definitely gentler, and I get strong notes of red jolly rancher, core baking spices (cinnamon, nutmeg) and strawberry jam.  Floral note fades to the background a bit but it is definitely still there. Warm caramel, amps up the richness of this nose with some time.  Powdered sugar.  With time I get this fragrant apple note that seems to dominate; It?s a very specific smell that I have only ever smelled when apple picking in the fall.  Fragrant with apple juice, but also this floral note which comes off the skin of a freshly picked apple.  God it feels good to finally pin that note down.  Caramel which reminds me of some GlenDronach Single Casks I?ve had.  If I had to put this down in one phrase it would probably freshly picked ambrosia apples just about to be dipped in some warm caramel.  

Taste: Quite rich with toffee and coffee cake.  Red fruits are still present but take more of a back seat (more like dried red fruits) This has been the hardest to nail down.  So much going on at once that it?s tough to pick out specific notes.  With time, this opened up a lot and settled down.  I think that while there could be some younger malt in here, there is definitely a good portion which is older juice.  Floral notes more prominent and follows the nose.

Finish: Caramel apple dusted with cinnamon and nutmeg.  Quite long on the finish, which turns to coffee cake with toffee chips.   Now it?s like I?ve eaten a Coffee hard candy and one of those strawberry hard candies (the ones with the strawberry wrapper) at the same time.  After some time, stewed apple sauce with a pinch of cinnamon.  Kinder-egg chocolate comes quite strongly.   

?

Thoughts: I poured a bit of the 105 and Nadurra to compare (ran out of A?bunadh).  There is extensive behavioural research out there which indicates that when something is more difficult to obtain, the consumer is more glad they undertook the effort to obtain the product. What the studies have shown is that, this satisfaction does not cause an increase in how you rate the product.  The ?side-by-side? does confirm my score below, and also lends further credence to just how complex the Macallan is in comparison.  I don?t want anyone to think that the others are bad.  They are not, full stop.  This Macallan is just much better.  

With the exception of the 20 Year 105, this opened up the most with time.  I think my score below will speak for itself.  This is the clear winner.  The floral and apple notes took this to another level for me and really contrasted the darker sherry and toffee notes.  I don?t think I have too much to add other than to say that this is damn good once it opens up.  

Score

92/100

Summary

Firstly, my sincerest apologies on the length of this mega review. If you?ve actually read this far I?m including a summary of the scores just below so you don?t have to scroll through.  

If you took out the 105 20 year, you could probably just call this review the battle of the NAS sherry monsters.  Overall, this was an incredible experience for me. Not only did I get to drink a lot of amazing scotch for ?science? but I also got to really see how much sherry bombs can differ.  Before going into this, sherry was just sherry.  Something I loved mind you, but sherry notes were pretty standard at times.  I?m very grateful to have done this to be able to really compare and contrast.  Xile_ did say that I was probably screwed, in that if I liked the Mac CS then there wasn?t much of a way to get more.  He?s completely right.  I am in love with the Macallan CS and I will yet again lament the sorry state the distillery has put themselves in.  Life goes on though and it was better to have loved and lost than to never loved at all.  I really thought this would be a dead heat throughout with degrees separating the different drams.  The Macallan CS is the clear winner for me.  It has your standard sherry notes but adds so much more in terms of quality, depth, and complexity.  The 20 year 105 comes the closest, but really it?s not a competition.  Everything else tasted a bit on the young side.  The Mac CS does have youthful notes, but at it?s core it?s a different beast than the other NAS sherry bombs.  The real question is how does this compare to the GlenDronach and the truth is that they are more similar than I would have thought.  Both are rich, dark, and fruity.  I would say the Macallan has the slight edge due to the addition of the light and floral notes which really puts your palate through the gamut of experiences possible.  Quick note on my scores below.  One of the few reviews I read of the Mac CS was a vertical comparing this to the Aberlour and Glenfarclas I believe.  The Mac CS was the winner, and while I was hoping that my experience wouldn?t necessarily stack up to that, I am glad that the Macallan came out the winner.  Now after this mega review I'm going to take a bit of a break.

Aberlour A?bunadh: 86/100

Glenfarclas 105: 86.5/100

Glenfarclas 105 20 Year: 87/100

GlenDronach Cask Strength Batch 4: 91/100

Glenlivet Nadurra Oloroso: 84/100

Macallan Cask Strength: 92/100



Yea it took some time...I need a gatordae now... haha

In all seriousness, it was just a really fun exercise and definitely expanded the horizons for me.  I really did like the Nadurra, it just that in comparison it's on the weaker side.  How do the others stack up for you?



Normally I prefer the A'bunadh over Glenfarclas 105, but have not had batch 53 so cannot say. 

I've been underwhelmed by the Glendronach Cask Strength, I find it a little plain compared to individual single casks.  Macallan Cask Strength is damn good, and getting a bottle now at a reasonable price is about as easy as finding a unicorn in High Park. 



It was such a toss up between the A'bunadh and the 105 for me - I think the cherries of the 105 speak to me a bit more, but its such a personal preference.  A'bunadh was delicious just lacked the oomph for me of the 105 (would  be happy to have a bottle in isolation though)

Fair enough, I've had a 17y Oloroso SC and 19y PX SC.  I also have some more samples (20y Oloroso, and 2 20y PXs I think) that I need to drink and compare which could definitely be better than the Batch 4 Cask Strength I've had.  But to date, the SCs I've had were really good, but not too complex and the Cask Strength won out in terms of complexity for me.  Small sample for sure, and I don't expect my conclusions to necessarily hold as I drink the other SCs.

Haha fair enough.  It's really good, but I don't know that it would be worth those unicorn prices.  Didn't the Mac Cask Strength go for under $100 when it was sold at the LCBO?



Great review! I've been meaning to do this one for awhile, so happy to enable you as my proxy haha

Scores turned out about how I had thought they would, though closer on the top end than I would have guessed. Well done!



Please do at some point!

Yea overall, had so much fun doing this and thank you again!  I think with some more time I'd probably give the Mac CS a higher rating.  As well, as I don't have any more of the GD left, it's probably covered by rose-tinted glasses a bit, although I do think it deserves the 91.  The Mac CS should probably be higher, but I think I also need to leave room on the scale for future exceptional malts haha



Thanks for reading that way too long review!

Depending where you are the Glendro CS shouldn't be too hard to find actually - so given its availability it's a nice alternative - of course the Mac CS has gone the way of the fairy tale 



Nice write-up and comparison.

Curious to hear what you think of the Kavalan Solist Sherry ...



Thanks for reading!

been on a bit of a reddit hiatus

read some of the background stuff on your website - what fascinating stuff!

I'm looking forward to reviewing the Solist - just waiting for a moment when my palate feels at 100%



Great write up and reviews!  

Unfortunately for the Nadurra Oloroso, it is the same price as the A'bunadh around here.  Easy choice to pick up the A'bunadh.  The Nadurra 16 year, on the other hand, makes it a tougher choice!



Thanks for reading this way-too-long-review!

Agreed that i would much rather have the A'bunadh!



When I was first tasting whisky a few years ago (2009?), I had the Macallan CS and immediately loved it. Back then it was the expensive bottle I was "always going to buy" if/when I had an occasion to splurge. But I never did.

Price back then: $60 USD.



Aberlour A'Bunadh (Batch 49)

Appearance: Amber +3

Nose: Rich dark fruits, plumb, cherries, dates, figs, hints of chocolate, note of maple syrup, some rum notes, almonds, brown sugar.

Taste: Sweet sherried arrival, fairly dry, thick mouthfeel, cherries, chocolate fudge, lots of dark fruits, some moderate wood spice.

Finish: Finishes quite dry, with some lingering notes of cherry and mild vanilla.

Notes: One of the most flawless batches of A'Bunadh I've had. No off notes (metallic, astringent, etc), and just a rich Sherry bomb. That being said, the more exposure I get to heavily sherried whiskies, the more I am finding A'Bunadh to be a touch one-dimensional. Once you get past the sherry, there isn't much else to find. I still love this whisky though.

Score: 88/100

?

Glenlivet Nadurra Olorosso (Batch OL0614)

Appearance: Amber +2

Nose: Warm wood and some old leather up front, definite sherry notes, but the nose is fairly subdued.

Taste: Wonderful sweet arrival, the first note I get is oranges. Lots of typical sherry notes (plumb, cherries, brown sugar, molasses). The interesting thing about this one is how the typical notes of a sherry bomb combine with the notes of almost chocolate orange. Really interesting and yummy.

Finish: Lingering sweetness, that turns slightly dry. Some spicy notes in the finish. Medium length.

Notes: The profile on this one is amazing. A big sherry bomb, but backed by the wonderful notes of chocolate and orange. One to look out for if you love sherry bombs.

Score: 90/100

?

Glenfarclas 25

Appearance: Amber +1

Nose: Rich and fruity up front, apricots, some citrus, honey, barley sugar.

Taste: Rich and smooth on the palate, chocolate, fudge, a really interesting strawberry jam note, confectionary, lots of wood spice, ginger, white pepper, a rum note. Some mild sherry lingering in the background, but quite subtle. Very complex.

Finish: Finishes with dark fruits and candied ginger. Long.

Notes: All I can say is YUM. I love the taste profile on this one; the strawberry jam note is one I have never encountered before. The complexity is very high, and there are so many flavours to discover here. A real treat.

Score: 92/100

?

Scores to Date: Min:66.0, Max:98.0, Avg:85.7, SD:5.3



Nice reviews.  It's good to see these three one right after the other.  

I like the Nadurra 16 year so much I am having a hard time trying to convince myself to take the plunge on the Nadurra Oloroso.  Your review is making me think about it, though.



I received this as a Christmas present from my best friend. He enjoys whisky but doesn?t have an in-depth knowledge. He did however remember I loved a sherry cask scotch and cask strength whiskies so I commended him on his choice. 

60.77% ABV

Paid: $75 

Region: Speyside

Color: Dark Copper

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn 

Nose: Raisins and dried fruits. Oloroso sherry. Confectionary sugar. I can almost smell the sugary sweetness coming off of this one. 

Taste: Figs and dates. Almond and sherried oak. Christmas cake and gingerbread. 

Finish: Has a bit of nip on the end of my tongue which I assume is from some younger whisky in the bottle, but it is fresh and fruity. Custard, citrus and ginger finish things off. 

Overall: I really enjoyed this and it was a thoughtful gift. Much more than I expected out of Glenlivet, however I would like to see at least a 12 year aged version put out, that would check all the boxes for me. Benefits greatly from the added texture due to high ABV. A good fruity sherry bomb. Now I just need to get my hands on a Glenfarclas?. 

Score: 87/100



Great review!

I'm a big big fan of this bottle but I am certainly not a fan of the price or lack of age statement. 



Great review! I wanted to like this Glenlivet, but it was a bit too hot for my palate, even after 45 mins of rest in a glencairn.

Oddly enough I do like Glenfarclas 105, which is just as "hot". Probably because it has the classic toffee-esque Glenfarclas notes that I love from the 17 and 21 year expressions



Here's my review https://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/55ayp9/review_8_aberlour_abunadh_review_dumping_today/?st=ixj9ry3l&sh=fa454094

I found the Glenlivet to be more fruity and fresh, Aberlour to be more of a vanilla Christmas dram. 



The Glenlivet Nadurra Oloroso Cask (NAS) ? 60.7%, $63

Nose: Buttered apple, pie crust, sherry wine, figs, dates, sour cherry

Taste: Powerfully sherry upfront, dates and figs, spice on the back. Full Mouthfeel

Finish: Apple shows up with an almost cinnamon spice. Creamy Sherry. Medium Length.

Notes: This was batch OL0614. My first sample of this was from an unknown batch and was very sulfuric. This however was a pleasant difference. It was reminiscent of the Macallan Cask Strength with less heather and more fruit notes. I?m not pleased with the discontinuation of the 16 Year Nadurra for a NAS but this is at least one that tastes good. 

83/100



Good review! I would rate it pretty much as you did but can't justify picking up another bottle. I think this is first fill sherry but not sure for how long it was aged; think of how good it could be if they waited for 15-16 years like the bourbon barrel Nadurra.  

Did you add any water to this?



As documented in the title, I found and poured a sample I had of this. Thanks /u/bigmoneysalsa ... And also no thanks. That's your tl;dr ladies and gentlemen, now on with the review. FYI this is the 60% ABV version, I believe I uploaded an incorrect photo.

First Impressions: a bottle of wine was opened, not whisky

Nose: white raisins, and that same musty plastic bucket of grass clippings from the Highland Park Dark Origins, but brighter this time. No sweetness in the nose, it's all tart/sour and dry. 

Taste: initially a bit of sweet fruitiness with a touch of cinnamon, shifting swiftly to dry white wine, raisins, and white pepper.

Finish: short burn, tart fruit (pear, apple, white grapes) aftertaste

Maybe it's the environment (waiting for this Ubuntu server to finish upgrades), but I simply didn't enjoy this. There is minimal complexity with no layers to peel back, and the one layer that does exist is mostly unpleasant to my senses. I actually found myself choking slightly when inhaling above the glass prior to my last sips. It may be a fine whisky - that's for others to judge. This Glenlivet is not for me. Grade D: needs improvement. Generously granting D+ because cask strength.

Score: 68/100

Would I buy it again? No. There's some chance I may try it in a bar or via sample swap in the distant future just to test if the pour or my tastes are changed, but not a bottle, no.



Shit. I'm glad I read your review, kudos on that by the way.

I've been hanging out to try this for some time as an avid lover of Nadurra 16. Now, I'll probably skip it if I see it in Perth/Hong Kong/Vancouver duty free.



Hi Scotchit! Cake_my_day's here so it's time for another Double Feature. This time: Glenlivet Nadurra:

The Glenlivet Nadurra Oloroso Matured

Speyside, 60.7%

Batch no.: OL0614

Matured in first fill Oloroso casks, bottled at cask strength, non chill-filtered.

color: copper

nose: Sherry, raisins, apricots, caramel, stewed fruit, cinnamon, licorice, meaty, glazed cherries

taste: Sherry, honey, cola, ginger, raisins, cherries, orange marmalade, coffee, milk chocolate

finish: medium long, meatyness, mint, spice

Dark, bold and sweet Sherry bomb. With a certain savoriness/meatyness like some Mortlachs, great. Very drinkable. A touch of youth too though.

89/100

The Glenlivet 16

Nadurra

Speyside, 53%

Batch no.: 0911P

color: gold

nose: oak, red licorice, toffee, rum punch, cinnamon, oriental spices, pears, lilac, Uludag green

taste: sugared Rice Krispies, honeyed toast, spicy vanilla, sweet pears, marzipan, hint of salt

finish: drying

Wonderful exotic nose. Tastewise pretty complex. Long finish. Refreshing.

91/100



Glenlivet?s Nadurra line originated with a reasonably priced, cask strength, 16 yr age stated version, which was pretty well received. As aged stockpiles depleted/they wanted to get their money faster, the age stated stuff started disappearing, replaced by a series of NAS, cask strength versions - this one was matured in Oloroso Sherry casks.

Thanks to /u/MajorHop for the sample. This one was bottled at 60.7% abv.

Nose - Powerful. Quite vanilla forward (surprisingly so, actually). Amaretto, praline, gingerbread, black pepper, dark chocolate, raisins. Seems like some pretty nice casks were used.

Palate - Amaretto, dark chocolate,  raisin, cinnamon, black pepper. Very bold, full bodied, and most importantly, tasty. Gets increasingly spicy as it develops.

Finish - Gets weirdly grapey here, with cinnamon, much more black pepper, raisin, dark chocolate. Long lasting, especially the spice notes.

This was a pleasant surprise for me, as I didn?t expect much from an NAS version of something that had formerly been age stated (yes, I?m aware the age stated version used a different cask type). Anyway, what this seems to be is a worthy competitor to the A?bunadh.

88/100



I'm sure there's a little batch variation as there is with similar products such as Laph CS, A'bunadh etc, but I don't have a batch number not have I tried other batches.

I'd be surprised if differences were all that substantial, though.



That's my issue with these NAS releases. You just have to try them, and I really mean each and every one. 

Only with few of them you know it's going to be great or at least decent (Ardbeg, Abunadh..) but for most it's really hit or miss. Macallan Amber etc have NOTHING on the 12year old or any age stated macallans really, and the Glenlivet Founders Reserve is vile crap compared to the original 12.



Thanks for the review.  

Recently sampled this from my brother's bottle, and wasn't as impressed. Found it to be less complex than A'bunadh (particularly less spicy than my batch 49). Also didn't seem to handle water as well (i.e., quickly dulls without bringing up anything new).  But of course, batches are batches .... you never now what you are going to get.



At the Edinburgh duty free for an evening flight. The whisky reps are out in full force pouring samples. took some very sparse, quick notes, didn't comment on appearance for most because they all look like e150.

I'd seen the Talisker Skye in bottle shops and was curious so I started with it, expecting a standard Talisker dram

Talisker Skye - 45.8% ABV

Nose: Salty. Sweet. Little peat. 

Palate: Salty, rough. Young. Sweet peat. Bitter. 

Finish: Short. Salty

Score: 75/100

not worth it. 

Next I tried this Dalwhinnie travel retail exclusive. Fan of the 15, not expecting much here.

Dalwhinnie Winter's Gold - 43% ABV

Nose: Fruity, dried raisin

Palate: Sour, fruity, bitter, salty. Light

Finish: Short sour.

Score: 73/100

not good at all. Don't buy

and now an Oban DF exclusive. lets see how they fucked this one up.

Oban Little Bay - 43% ABV

Nose: Fruity sweet, malty

Palate: Salty , fruity, honey, light. 

Finish: Short sweet

Score: 72/100

what is wrong with these drams, they keep getting worse

JWG, never had it before and coincidentally it's the community review I posted before leaving for the trip. Now I can participate!

Johnnie Walker Green - 43% ABV

Nose: Light slight salt, slight fruit

Palate: Light, slightly salty, fruity. Sour and bitter

Finish: Short and sour

Score: 78/100

and it tastes much like the others I've had so far other than combining saltiness and some fruit. Ugh this is disappointing

This one was the last at the table I was interested in trying. A special edition Caol Ila always sounds good. This is finished in Moscatel casks. 

Caol Ila Distiller's Edition Special Release C-si-2-475 - 43% ABV

Nose: Salty peat, smokey, sweet

Palate: Peppery, light sweet peat, some dried fruit

Finish: Long and smoky

Score: 85/100

much nicer. Glad I saved this till after the others. Too bad it's bottled at 43%. It would be amazing at cask strength.

I went to the other table to try a few more. Started with the Nadurra Olorosso. 

Glenlivet Nadurra Olorosso - 48% ABV

Nose: Sweet, grapey, red fruit

Palate: Very sweet, lots of red fruit, quite hot. Must be young. 

Finish: Short hot

Score: 80/100

sad they dropped age statements on Nadurra and started bottling at lower proof. Not great

after my disappointment, the bartender  asked me what I Liked and didn't like about it and then reached under the counter for a bottle he said he only pulls out occasionally. This Single cask glenlivet is aged in sherry hogshead for 14 years and bottled at cask strength. needless to say, I was excited. 

Glenlivet 14 Single Cask Sherry - 55.8% ABV

Nose: Tons of fruit, strawberry, raspberry, apricot

Palate: Wow. Gorgeous oaky flavour behind a bouquet of fruit. Caramel,  dances on the tongue. 

Finish: Long oaky and fruity.

Score: 89/100

fantastic step up from everything else I'd had so far. I'd buy this if it weren't 250 pounds.

After that single cask, I tried a Hibiki which I've posted in World Whisky. Needless to say that was a mistake. So I came back for something peaty to overwhelm that disappointment. 

anCnoc Barrow - 46% ABV

Appearance: almost completely clear. Crazy light

Nose: Smoky, slight peat, sweet light apple, 

Palate: Lots of ashy smoke, iodine, peat, 

Finish: Long and smoky

Score: 81/100

not a great peated dram, but not the worst I've had this trip. 

then moving on, I found a dalmore table with their new sherry DF exclusive lineup. I went for the most expensive one, Dominium which is finished in Matusalem sherry casks. It's NAS but the rep said it's 12-15 years, and talked about the casks which she claims held sherry for 45 years. hmm

Dalmore Dominium  - 46% ABV

Nose: Sherry, raisins,apricots, raspberry, tobacco.

Palate: Raisins, fruit, sweet, . Well rounded, lots of oak, berries, 

Finish: Short and bitter. gross off taste.

Score: 80/100

that finish is so bad. The flavours are great on the palate but that finish is horrendous. Too bad. Also suffers from low ABV.

so those were my adventures at duty free. sure made the time waiting at the airport go by quicker and more enjoyably, even if the drams were a mixed bag. i think this is the last of my review posts. hope you've enjoyed them! I'll be posting that hibiki review and a whiskyporn post of my take-home drams soon. Slainte!



Nice lineup there :)

To be fair, Dalmore does have some good cask management. Probably in the top. You reckon the Dominion is worth grabbing?



so i got this in a swap with /u/Lasidar a while back, but because it had a question mark on it, i forgot what it was and thought it was actually a mystery review from /u/Kinohead, because i'd forgotten to update my swap tracker with the reveal when i reviewed his mystery dram. 

so yeah... my guess was way the fuck off, but here's the review, reposted under the right name. 

Appearance: very deep orange/copper colour. Either coloured or it's been in a cask for a long time, or a cask finish that has added some colour. Great legs. 

Nose: quite the nose on this sucker. I'm leaning towards the cask finish guess. It's got a lot of sherry notes in it? tons of dark fruit. Bit oaky and a hint of spiciness. 

Taste: whoa that's interesting.. Not sure I've ever tasted something from this distillery before. Lots of sherry fruitiness, spicy cinnamon, toffee and some apple. Candied apple actually. Some hints of chocolate. Sharp spirity edge that tells me this is higher than standard ABV. I'd guess 46-50%. tobacco notes. 

Finish: long and with a mild sweetness. Quite nice and satisfying.

Score: 87/100

below was my guess and as you can see, i was off pretty badly as i've had many from the distillery and should have been able to identify it. i think i got a lot of the tasting notes that others have seen though.. still a guessing fail on my part. but overall, thanks for the fantastic dram, /u/Lasidar! i really enjoyed it!

this is a really nice dram. I'm going to guess sherried, speyside, 46-50%, and from a distillery I haven't tasted before. I glanced at /u/Kinohead's inventory and I think it's the AnCnoc Peter Arkle Bricks. Looking forward to seeing how wrong I was! Reveal: AnCnoc Peter Arkle Warehouse ... so close and yet so far!!

Previous Glenlivet Reviews

Glenlivet 12

Glenlivet 16 Nadurra

Glenlivet Master Distiller's Reserve



I wouldn't fault you for saying you haven't had anything from the distillery; I find this one very "un-Glenlivet like", mainly because of how dominant the sherry influence is.

I really enjoy this one; it's on par with A'Bunadh and Glendronach for me. I get a chocolate orange type note on the palate that works so well with the red fruits and character of Glenlivet.

Glad you enjoyed it!



yeah, it had some really nice notes that i'd never associate with glenlivet. must be the olorosso. 

i definitely got those chocolate hints which was really nice. fantastic dram for sure!



As part of one of the many whisky groups I'm part of, we all decided we'd be dicks to one another, but in a nice way. 

So we all showed up, each with 2 whiskies: One we want empty and one mystery. And then, without knowing the order, and leaving that up to /u/31mak, we drank each one, reviewed them, and found out we're all pretty bad at picking.

So let's see how poorly I did, shall we? All information is down here, but we didn't have that at the time.

Oh, if you're reading this on reddit, then Mystery #2 is over on /r/worldwhisky.

Mystery #1

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Blend

Cask Type: American Oak

Malts used: 76% 18-year-old Glen Elgin, 24% at least 21-year-old Port Dundas single grain 

Number of Bottles: 876

Bottled: 09.2010

Abv: 53.3%

Colour: 7.5Y 9/6

Nose: Mineral, peach, butter, lemon, arugula

Good amount of mineral eventually opens up to some fruit. Lighter nose. Some pepper, some vegetal, nothing too strong or powerful, but nice.

Taste: Peanut butter, pepper, light cocoa, cloves, cookie dough

More to the taste now. Initial note of peanut butter leaves quick. Eventually that sweetness goes to a nice cookie dough flavour. A lot more going on here than the taste, which is for the best.

Finish: Pepper, coffee, butterscotch, tobacco, pear, vanilla, ginger/cloves

Some heat/earth eventually goes to spice, vanilla, and earth. A lot of the earth and spice pairs quite well. Good amount of tobacco here, and I typically don't like that note. Good balance.

Conclusion: So you're going to have the nose on this one, and assume it's not too strong. Then the taste and finish have a nice amount of flavours. It's young, powerful, tasty, but the nose is going to throw you off.

There's a lot of earth going on here too, nice amount of spice, and it's quite sweet. If you don't like Lowland/starter/appertif whiskies, this is a skip. I like them, so my score is higher due to that, but lower because the nose wasn't too special.

81/100

Guess: Ex-bourbon, Cask strength, 12 to 14 years, Lowland single malt?

Actually: Compass Box Double Single 10th Anniversary

Mystery #3

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Lowland

Distilled: 1999

Bottled: 2016

Age: 17 years

Cask Type: 2 ex-bourbon hogsheads

Amount of bottles: 498 bottles

Abv: 55.9%

Colour: 7.5Y 9/6

Nose: Grassy, ash, cotton, candy, lemon wood polish

Initial note is a lot of grass. Some ash too. It's reminding me of Old Pulteney or Balblair with the grassy notes. Lots of vegetal notes.

Eventually this smells like that mouse I sprayed with Pledge when I woke up one time and somehow had Pledge near me. The next day someone slipped on the ground because the mouse ran around.

Or Pledge. It smells like lemon Pledge. Yeah, could have jumped ahead there.

Taste: Zucchini, plum, grass, ginger, passion fruit, lemon pudding, white chocolate

More vegetal. Actually this is like all the flavours rushing you at once. I'm used to the nose being huge and then a step back on the taste. This is the nose being odd and then trying to eat an entire farmer's market, including the baked goods and without the farmer's themselves (support them people, they are hard workers!)

Finish: Heather, Boston cream doughnuts, pepper, grassy, coconut, pineapple

More like the nose than the taste. There's a light grass/sweet note. And it tastes like Boston cream doughtnuts. Seriously, who cares what else I say, this is tasty.

Conclusion: Decent amount of time in the cask. Cask strength, odd notes. I thought it was a highland due to the constant grass/vegetal notes, but without any coffee notes.

Lots of great flavours on the finish and taste. Nose was a let down for me, because it was mostly just lemon, ash, and grassy. Quite light. The rest? Tons of flavours. It? Fuck you, I'm Pledge.

Nice dram overall, would be nice to have a bottle on hand.

84/100

Guess: Ex-bourbon, cask strength, 16-18 years old, virgin finished Highland

Actually: Auchentoshan 17 Cadenhead Small Batch

Mystery #4

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Speyside

Vintage: 1991

Cask Type: Sherry Octave Cask Finish

Abv: 54.3%

Colour: 10Y 9/8

Nose: Passion fruit, peach, cream, butter

Initial nose is lots of tropical fruit. One, specifically, which is that flavour ingredient they use in those tropical drinks. Or at least whatever gland from whatever rodent makes it seem like that flavour.

Creamy, fruity, and buttery. Smells young.

Taste: Peach, huge amount of brown butter/butterscotch, grass, strawberry

Tons of butter. Cooked butter. Which has lots of sweet caramel/nutty notes, and bounces slightly to butterscotch. 

If you can avoid that flavour (which isn't easy), eventually there's some grassy and red fruit/stone fruit notes. But honestly, it's butter as the king.

Finish: Heather, butter, a fat kid's backpack full of peanut brittle, caramel, sulfur

We change from brown butter, an expert bakers fat ingredient to peanut brittle, the child of the expert baker who is going to get diabetes by the time they are eleven. And I don't mean being hunted by the upside down.

Lots of caramel, butter, some nutty, and some sulfur which adds some dimension which is needed.

Conclusion: Young, brash, and definitely sherry influenced. Tons of butter on the taste and finish. It's hard to bash them on that, because... well who doesn't love the taste of butter? Not to mention the flavours it's heavy on are actually pretty complex.

That said, dear god this tastes young. It's rough, doesn't care what you think, and tastes like peanut brittle. If that's your thing, great. Me? I think I need something more integrated, balanced, and everything.

Now knowing what this is, all I have to say is this: Small casks made some youthful notes take over. Not a big fan.

79/100

Guess: Oloroso cask, 10-14 year, Highland, cask strength

Actually: Glen Moray 20 1991 The Octave Duncan Taylor

Mystery #5

Price: $247.95 CAD at the LCBO, though the website is saying 40%, so check before you buy

Region: Highland

Vintage: 15.12.1998

Bottled: 05.11.2014

Stated Age: 15 years

Cask Type: Refill Sherry Casks

Cask Number: 17064 + 17065

Abv: 58%

Colour: 7.5Y 8/8

Nose: Passion fruit, peach, pine, ginger, orange

Wait, did I start writing on the same page as the last one? Did our host pour the wrong one? Did I not drink water?

After checking with everyone else, rinsing our mouths out a few times, maybe starting a fight club and then realizing we don't really wanna... What the heck? It smells almost the same as the last one.

This one has more youth on the nose though. Less butter, more orange. Still confused.

Taste: Lots of butterscotch, ginger, orange juice, cranberry

Alright, I'm being punked, right? What the fucking fuck? 

Take a breath, make sure our host isn't dicking around, and she assures us she is not.

So there's a lot of butterscotch here. No nuttiness, which I'm mentioning for no reason. Some citrus here, which was missing on the last one, and some wood that has gone with the sherry.

Finish: Butter, burnt beef ends, pine, mineral, heather, peach

Alright, so this finish is different than the last whisky. I'm no longer questioning my sanity. More than usual.

The butter isn't as strong here. No nuttiness, and some meatiness instead.  More grass, some youth, and the mineral, which eventually becomes peach. Thank goodness.

Conclusion: This whisky made me swear so much that I lived up to my rap name, Vulgar Assassin (no joke, Wu-Tang clan name generator, tell your mom). It confused me so much that I thought two of the others brought the same whisky.

That said, the difference is there. It's younger, brasher, and has a more balanced finish. It's odd, needs work, and while I appreciate the citrus in it, it's just brash, gets some things right, not for me.

I found out later this was the age of a whisky I don't prefer, aged in a cask I don't prefer, and by a distillery that I'm picky about. Given that it gets a pretty high score given all that, I'm still not a fan.

76/100

Guess: Oloroso cask, 10-14 years, Highland

Actually: Clynelish 1998 Gordon & MacPhail Cask Strength 



Mystery #6

Price: $90.25 CAD at the LCBO

Region: Speyside

Batch: Ol0614

Bottled: 12.06.2014

Cask Type: First Fill Oloroso Sherry Casks

Abv: 60.7%

Colour: 10YR 6/8

Nose: Peanut, cherry, plum, orange, honeydew melon, oak

Hooray! It tastes different! I'm not useless (according to most)!

Strong. Very powerful nose. More sherry influence, can't tell what kind. More depth to this, more red fruits to it, but still has some light fruit as well.

Taste: Currant, anise, caramel, Demerra sugar, butter

I'm still lost on the type of sherry. Lots of brown sugar/molasses and butter. /u/lasidar keeps saying this is his. I'm assuming it's rum. He tells me it isn't.

I'm worried.

Finish: Hot, caramel, rum, orange, raisin, funk, peach, raisin bread

Hot finish. This needs water. The others I added water to in order to keep up, but this one needs water. Water opens it right up, lots of funk, even more rum.

Nice yeast notes. Lighter orange notes as well, with some good caramel.

Conclusion: Nice whisky. I liked it. Where as the others may have had youthful "needs more time" notes, this had more of the youthful "fruit, pull it now" notes. 

Make your own jokes, this is review #6 in a row.

I'm quite impressed by this one. Lots of different notes. Can't tell the type of sherry, but it was a good cask. Lots of caramel notes on the taste. I could see this as a good after-dinner drink to clear you out.

81/100

Guess: Cask strength, ex-sherry, 10 years

Actually: Glenlivet N?durra Oloroso

Scotch review #645-649, Blend review #68, Lowland review #33, Speyside review #191-192, Highland review #109, Whisky Network review #1087-1091

Link to my website with all my reviews



My Current Whisky Network Average =     77.33

Standard Deviation =    9.94

Skewness =  -2.67654

Kurtosis =  10.82542

Median =    80

IQR =   9

Max =   92

Min =   10



well damnit, get it right next time!

fixed :P