Greetings, r/scotch! Some mystery mad man or woman sent me a mystery package from Australia land. This so-called "pen and ink" contained three mystery drams and a nice lil Trinidad Reyes. I'm just gonna tag /u/UncleTobys here since I'm 99% sure it was him, but I guess we'll see. Whoever it was, though, thank you so much! This was very generous and a lot of fun to explore . . . . 

Glenfiddich 15 Distillery Edition, Speyside Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 51% abv; $49.99 for a 750mL bottle; enjoyed a neat dram

Color: Light gold

Nosing: Apple juice, butterscotch, malty grains, floral, delicate pears, a slight and far off medicinal note

Tasting: Floral, light herbal tea, apple juice, apricot, chewy mouthfeel, richer than I anticipated

Finish: Medium, warm, hot apple cider, smoky

Score: 79/100

I was on the fence about this one. It took me by surprise after the rather delicate and bland nose. The chewy mouthfeel was enticing 

Tobermory 15, Island Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 46.3% abv; ~$110 for a 750mL bottle locally; enjoyed a neat dram

Color: Standard amber 

Nosing: Light and airy, far off medicinal and iodine note, malty cereal, plums, rubbery/latex gloves

Tasting: Chewy mouthfeel, plums, cigar tobacco, a little smoky, black pepper

Finish: Short. Very, very short and muted

Score: 76/100

This one was pretty interesting right up until the finish. Just about knocked out anything I thought it had going for it. It's more robust than dram #1 but it still has this odd Speyside-meets-medicine vibe going on. 

The third was an Australian whisky, so check it out on r/worldwhisky here

Scotch whisky reviews #70 and 71

Whisky reviews #95 and 96

The Cigar: Trinidad Reyes

This was only the second Cuban I've had in my life. It comes in a wonderful size (reyes, which seems to be smaller than a petite corona) with a nice and small ring gauge of about 40, a nice wrapper with minimal veins, and capped off with a neat little pigtail, which I always enjoy. All in all, it's a rather mild smoke, but it was by far one of the better mild smokes I've ever had. It was meaty and had a lot of body to it, but it wasn't incredibly strong and didn't attack my senses with pepper notes and nicotine. It was easy, palatable, and in a great little package. I paired it with Old Weller Antique 107, and the strength of that characterful bourbon was like a foil to this smoke and they paired wonderfully. I would definitely like to get my hands on more of these smokes after having one now. 

If this truly was /u/UncleTobys, I remember having the Cubans vs. NCs talk a little while back. I got to say, this little guy really did surprise me and I think it's just one more indicator that true Cubans really are made with care and attention to detail. Then again, I still say like any other country, you get good and bad Cubans just like you get good and bad Hondurans, Nicaraguans, Domincans, etc., etc. In today's day and age, with the multitude of technological advancements we've had there's no way that cigar makers all over the world can't replicate the Cuban process down to a meticulous science (and they do!). 

So, like anything today, cigars are more globalized, but I know for us Americans Cubans have this "forbidden fruit" appeal that's kind of hard to ignore. Nonetheless, the cigar speaks for itself, and this little Trini was an excellent and quick smoke that I would gladly accept any day. Thanks so much!



I remember you wanted to try this one. It's pretty good, one of the better offerings from this distillery. Glenfiddich 15 Distillery Edition, 51% ABV.

One of my favourite island malts. Tobermory 15, 46.3% ABV.

You're right, this is an Aussie whisky. Overeem Port Cask Strength, 60% ABV. More info here: http://www.oldhobartdistillery.com/ 

The Trinidad Reyes is a great smoke, glad you enjoyed it. It's not a petit corona though, it's a... reyes. Same length a minuto but smaller ring gauge.



Glenfiddich 15 Distillery Edition / 51% ABV / NCF

tasted neat, then with bottled water

Quick review time for this amazingly delicious bottle of Glenfiddich bought on our way back to the states in the Schiphol airport duty free in Amsterdam!

If you have a chance to pick up a bottle, do!  They are nice 1L bottles of what is essentially the Glenfiddich 15 but at near-cask strength.  The extra power turns this staple into a great, muscular dessert.

Rating: 85/100 

15th review

Homepage | Reviews | Buy @ Wine-Searcher



In our recent swap, UT generously loaded four mystery drams in. Here's the first one.

UncleTobys Mystery #1. Aged 6 days in 6cl amber glass bottle in the ayedfy bond store/whisky shelf.

Nose: Sweet, a little cereal. Honey, toffee, vanilla, some lime citrus. Pretty stock standard unpeated bourbon cask at this point. I'd guess a Lowland or maybe a soft Highland. 

Palate: A little sharp, I'd guess an ABV in the low-mid 50s, and yet a decent creaminess. More honey and vanilla.

Finish: Dry finish, lingering honey and... you guessed it, vanilla. There's also a gentle herbal quality with hints of rosemary and oregano, with touches of orange zest and white pepper.

It's a good whisky, but a bit boring. Very straightforward. I enjoyed drinking it, although I doubt I'd pick up a full bottle unless it was particularly cheap.

78/100

EDIT: Looking over his list again, I'd have to guess Auchentoshan Valinch.



HAHAHHA I CAN'T REMEMBER, I'M TOO BUSY SINGING T-SWIZZLE AND CARLY RAE JEPSEN! 

I wrote it down somewhere, I'll tell you when I get home. It's definitely not Astar 



My, do you live a curious life.

Also, I archived this as Astar. Whoops. MODS. HELP.



Glenfiddich Distillery Edition, 51% ABV

I'm going to bed



Glenfiddich 15 Distillery Edition
A NCF 15 year old Glenfiddich bottled at 51% aged in American and European oak.

By the way, Donald Trump hates Glenfiddich!

Colour: Rich golden, added colour very likely.

Nose: Pears, apples, plums, honey, oak, vanilla, caramel, creme brulee.

Palate: Honey, apples, fall fruit.

Finish: Wood, pepper, cinnamon, apples.

If you like the standard Glenfiddich flavour profile, and I somewhat do, you will like this.  It's a higher proof, higher flavour 'fiddich without much complexity.  Sherry and bourbon cask influences are nicely balanced, there's a nice hint of oak, and it goes down easy at 51%.  I should note that the unique qualities of the standard 15 Solera (which I tried side by side with this) don't seem very present here.  Instead it's more along the lines of those notes in the 12.

Solid stuff but nothing particularly special.

85/100

Other Glenfiddich reviews:

Glendfiddich 12 - 81/100

Glendfiddich 15 - 86/100

Glendfiddich 18 - 84/100

Glendfiddich Cask Collection Select Cask - 82/100

Glendfiddich Cask Collection Sherry Reserve Cask - 81/100



I just ate some cheese to get rid of the smokiness in my mouth. I think I need a break after this, the remaining two reviews will come after dinner.

Glenfiddich 15 Distillery Edition, 51% ABV

Colour: Amber.

Nose: Sweet malt,  vanilla, flowers. A little smoke. Smells a lot better than other Glenfiddichs.

Taste: Slightly tart and a little salty. Sherry sweetness. White pepper, herbs and oak.

Finish: A lot of floral, pepper and spice notes. Caramel and honey. Medium and passable I guess.

This dram is a lot better than the other Glenfiddich expressions I've tried (12, 15, 18.)  If I wanted to drink a high ABV Speyside I'd rather have an A'bunadh or Glenfarclas 105.

84/100

Thanks for reading.



Glenfiddich 15y Distiller's Edition

(51%, NCF, ex-bourbon and ex-oloroso sherry)

?

Thanks to u/cpfselfbuilt for this sample! 

?

Nose: Pear, honey, green apple, vanilla, caramel, almond, floral hints

Taste: Honey, apples, vanilla, butter, caramel, wood, pepper

Finish: Wood, pepper, vanilla

?

Very familiar combination of scents greet the nose right away? honey and a pear/apple combo to start, leading into some vanilla and caramel, a light nuttiness and mild floral hints. The apples are much crisper in the taste, with the overall collective notes skewing a little heavier in nature in contrast to the nose. Bittersweet finish with a light peppery heat. The wooden note kind of takes over.

The nose was like being greeted by an old friend? classic Glenfiddich, though the higher strength lends itself nicely to the aromas. Sadly the taste and finish, though full bodied, can?t quite follow through as well in delivery. What?s there is decent, but just doesn?t have the same dynamic character as in that initial greeting. In summary: oaky, vanilla sweet and spice, straightforward, the higher strength is appreciated and it's at least a nice step up from the 12.

?

84/100



I had this over Christmas, and I now have to wonder what I missed.  The flavors were super light and completely blown out by the taste of alcohol.  I know this is 51%, but I tend to like stronger stuff!  We immediately followed this by a 57% drink (Ardbeg Corryvreckan) and were completely baffled at how something 6% heavier tasted significantly less like alcohol.

Maybe my Glenfiddich bottle was different, but this was a complete miss for me.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  I dont think I can count anymore.  according to my person review sheet I'm up to 170... I forgot about community reviews I guess but I did just dump a bunch of Canadian into /r/whiskeyreviews.  moving on, Glenfiddich 15 year old Distillers Edition 102 proof I got as a sample from MoM.  I was really looking forward to it because I've been wanting a cask strength fiddich

for the higher proof not much more flavor.  solera has more complexity.  what a disappointment.  still good but I really wanted more out of it.  I scored it accordingly because despite being a let down I like to be objective. now looking at the other reviews of it in the archive, they are all around the same score as well.  

86/100



Hi Scotchit! Glenfiddich is one of the bigger player in the whisky business. I actually like their stuff, although they tend to be a bit watery. So a higher proof 'Fiddich? Yes please!

Glenfiddich 15 Distillery Edition

Speyside, 51%

non chill-filtered

color: amber

nose: fresh apples, cinnamon, cr?me brul?e, banana, cherries, malt

taste: hazelnuts, floral, pears, oak, pepper, grapefruit, lemon, yeast

finish: drying and lingering

Fruity and spicy. Fresh and juicy. Pretty complex. With that typical pear and oak Glenfiddichness. Theres is a certain bitterness and acidity too which is not too bad but noticeable.

85/100



Seems to be missing some of the Solera qualities of the standard 15.

Shame. I thought their 15 was pretty good, which I attributed to their Solera aging. A higher proof version of that would always have a place on my shelf, I think. 



Thanks for the vertical, always great to see these.

Just had the 15 Distillers Edition this past weekend, and wasn't as crazy about it - found it too oaky bitter on the finish.  Prefer the 18 and 21 Gran Reserva, personally.



best of the range

I quite like the 15 DE, but I reserve that title for the 14yo Rich oak. Tried it?



I can't say I've had the DE, but the only one I found that I actually liked enough to buy a full bottle of is their 14 Bourbon Barrel Reserve. The more substantial caramel and vanilla notes help mute that apple/pear barrage that I find off-putting and the actual wood comes through nicely with some decent spice. Throw in that it's bottled at 43% and you get something that's actually pretty good.

All of which is odd because I'm not generally a fan of ex-bourbon maturation.



Hey everyone,

Glenlivet yesterday, Glenfiddich today. Again, one of the most recognised brands and one that is often cited as a good beginner malt. I normally find it has a similar profile to Glenlivet but with more fruit and less floral notes. 

Interstingly, despite being huge and making a metric shit-tonne (technical term) of whisky, they still have small direct fired stills, which should give it a more traditional character. Although, I think the only time it can show itself off is at higher strength. 

As with Glenlivet, I?m not a huge fan of Glenfiddich, even the older stuff. Never really bottled above 40%, I feel like the character of the spirit is normally too muted. Anyways, here?s my reviews:

?

Glenfiddich 12 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Vanilla, boiled sweets, light and floral, sweet fruit- Apple, pear, peach, bit of toffee.

Taste: Sweet, fruity, lots of vanilla, toffee, oaky, malt, bit of spice, slightly oily.

Finish: Short length. Honey disappears with a bit of oak.

More fruity, less floral than Glenlivet 12, but just as boring.

55/100

?

Glenfiddich 15 Solera Vat 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Very nutty and fruity. Tiny bit of heat, classic apple and pear combo, sweety shop, fragrant and perfumed- Incense, rosewater, lavender, malty chocolate.

Taste: Very light and delicate. Nut- Peanut?, and fruit- Apple and pear, toffee, sweety shop sweets, creamy oak, malty chocolate into the finish.

Finish: Medium length. Apple crumble and milk chocolate.

Similar to the Glenlivet 15 but maybe more sherry influence.

65/100

?

Glenfiddich 15 Distillery Edition 51%

Colour: Gold

Body: Full

Nose: Dark chocolate, deep fruity flavours- Blackberry, spice- Cinnamon, bit of nut, caramel, some pepper, honey, peach, raisin.

Water: Fruit softens, more herbal. More oak, barley and cereal.

Taste: Sweet, full dark rich fruit, caramel, vanilla, cinnamon, cream. Juicy inteense fresh fruit.

Water: More spice, then more barley and cereal.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Oakiness coming through and dominates, bit of almond.

Non-chillfiltered Glenfiddich is actually good! Well behaved for 51%.

75/100

?

Glenfiddich 21 Gran Reserva 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light/Medium

Nose: Complex. Vanilla and spice, a dusting of nutmeg and cinnamon powder, toffee, vanilla fudge, creamy oak, complex pear- lots of sweet pear, pear drops, sour pear, pear Moams (the chewy sweets), white grape, some apple, honey, raisin, coffee, a layer of spice running under everything.

Taste: Very light and delicate. Soft and creamy, lots of pear, tiny bit of apple, white grape, creamy oak, bit of spice developing, malty chocolate, McVites milk chocolate digestives.

Finish: Medium length. Malty chocolate and spiced oaky tannins.

Last little bit of the bottle- Thanks u/generalbirdy Still took some time to open up. Rum finish has a light touch.

75/100

?

Glenfiddich Special Old Reserve 1980's

Colour: Light Gold

Body: Light/Medium

Nose: Oak leaves, oak wood, light dusty fruit- Apple and pear, pear drops, peahc, damp leaves, a bit of youth, vanilla, dusty shelf, bit of toffee. After 5-10 minutes it went sappy with rough coffee.

Taste: Light arrival, cream, very fruity- Apple and pear, very long development with very sweet red apple, apple crumble, twigs and building oaky spice (a bit rough).

Finish: Long length. Lots of coffee.

1/3 full open bottle that was my Step-Granddad's. So, so different to modern Glenfiddich.

??/100- Really don?t know what to mark this. But much more character than the new stuff.

?

I?ve tasted a few others, The Discovery series, Vintage cask and 25 Rare cask but wasn?t able to make proper notes. 

Thanks for reading!

Reviews #253-#257



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/glenfiddich

Network Average: 75.6

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



Thanks to /u/Phreaky-Zee for this sample.

Glenfiddich is a distillery I look at and wonder about.

Because let's be honest: If you've read my reviews, you know I shit all over Macallan on a regular basis. And give Diageo a good, nice amount of ribbing too. Large company owned whisky makers usually don't escape my biting tongue, which will mostly mean that companies stay away from sending me stuff.

That and all the times I talked about my dick.

But Glenfiddich somehow avoids the ire. Am I being paid off? No, otherwise I wouldn't swap as much as I do. And if I had a way in with that company, I'd be working there, and drinking way more.

Glenfiddich is big, and does bring out "colour coding", yet they haven't gone completely NAS yet. They use okay casks. And I like a lot of their lineup.

Perhaps I'm just a biased fool who writes too much, or my brain has been permanently drunk for so long I can't remember what to hate, but I do still enjoy a Glenfiddich from time to time.

So the idea of Glenfiddich 15 Distillery Edition is an exciting one. A cask strength Glenfiddich? Sign me up.

Decent price? Okay that has nothing to do with the review but sure! Sounds cool!

Not in the Solera casks that I didn't like for the other 15? Even better!

But let's not get ahead of ourselves. I've set myself up before. All the stars have lined up just to burn me.

So let's take a non-based view of this one and see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: $86.95 (CAD) at the LCBO

Region: Speyside

Abv: 51%

Colour: 7.5YR 6/8

Nose: Grapefruit, smoke, apple, orange, wood, butter

Tart start to it, with some smoke coming off of it. Not "Islay" smoke, more so "this has been in oak" smoke.

As time goes by, this seems like a more fruit forward version of the 12 year. And you will have no complaints from me on that. Any time we can have more than "just pear" on a whisky, I'm all for it.

Taste: Apple, grapefruit, butter, vanilla, caramel, pepper

Again fruit forward. Not massive flavours, more so just big flavours of what I expect from Glenfiddich.

The buttery aspect is new, and I like that. Could eat this with popcorn, if the smell of it didn't put my wife into a rage.

And we can't afford to be sued again after the Puppies at the movies incident.

Finish: Butter, mesquite, raisin, rosemary, oak, strawberry, peach

Again, not super complex, save for the mesquite aspects on this one. Still fruit forward too.

Note to self: Mesquite smoke a Peach Cobbler at some point.

The earth seems a little left field here. The smoke aspects work with the sweet, but not so much the oak or raspberry.

Conclusion: This is a nice dram from Glenfiddich. So I was right, I'm biased, then end.

Well... not really. I'm a fan of Glenfiddich offerings, so this should have been a no brainer. The amount of complexity should have blown me away. However we ended up with a Glenfiddich turned up to 11. That's not a bad thing, it's just simple.

Based on this, I'd say that Glenfiddich has been made to be a low-abv whisky and still leave a smile on your face. With time I think it needs those finishes to amp it up. That said, I will still hunt for some IB Glenfiddich's as it could just be this batch, or the way they mixed it, to keep with the style.

80/100

Scotch review #430, Speyside review #131, Whisky Network review #686

Other Glenfiddich reviews:

Glenfiddich 12

Glenfiddich 14 Rich Oak Reserve

Glenfiddich 15 year old Solera Reserve

Glenfiddich 18

Glenfiddich 21 Gran Reserva    

Link to my website with all my reviews



My Current Whisky Network Average =     77.32

Standard Deviation =    10.15

Skewness =  -2.64614

Kurtosis =  10.39187

Median =    80

IQR =   9



I'm pretty sure you can find it, somewhere.

Price is going to hurt, but it's gotta be out there.



Didn't want to go to uni anyway...

Oh wait! I live in Denmark, so it's free! Suck it, Muricans! "But muh freedom and McDonald's!" Yeah, ain't getting you any uni time!

Sorry, what was the question again? Right. I can't afford it... I think you can make a bottle at the distillery if you want to.



I found some old, old SMWS that are out there. It's code 15.

Yeah... I was one of the few people who were able to, with help from my parents, paid for University as I went through. Exited with only $100 in debt.