Part 2 of the trio of Glendronach reviews:

Glendronach Cask Strength

Price: approx. $90
ABV: 54.9%
Details:

Nose: Beef stock, dark dried fruits (raisin, plum, strawberry), fudge (I?m normally loathe to put ?fudge? instead of chocolate/cocoa, but this is distinctly fudge), soy sauce, almond, ginger, honey, orange rind, pepper. A truly stunning nose with a great balance between sweet and savory.
Taste: Beef stock, candied ginger and orange, nutmeg, dark chocolate, fresh strawberry, espresso, tobacco smoke.
Finish: Cinnamon, ginger, sour citrus. Long.

Conclusion: This could be summarized as a very intense version of the 12 year old, but with some unique notes that aren?t found in the 12 (or any other whisky I have tasted for that matter). This brings a whopping dose of savory beef stock on the nose and palate that is such an awesome surprise. I spent about 15 minutes on and off just smelling this.

The youth shows a little bit, but I think that plays into my enjoyment of it. I don?t like my whisky to be over-saturated with wine notes to the point that I lose the whisky itself, so the shorter time in the barrel prevented that from happening here. I hope that batch variation isn?t too noticeable because I really enjoy this and will definitely consider purchasing a bottle in the future.
Overall: 88

Note: Scores are based on the quality of the whiskey. Price/value is not included in the score.

Other Glendronach reviews:



I haven't seen a middling review anywhere , let alone a negative one, of any of the batches so far.

As for the BF deal, I'm not worried about it too much. I think Glendronach's sherry whiskies were going to begin declining sometime in the not too distant future regardless. Benriach/Glendronach knew that and sold before it started happening. But of course everyone is going to blame the BF acquisition when they start declining in quality rather than the fact that the primary sherry industry isn't selling and well-seasoned casks are a luxury. Higher volume producers such as Macallan have already ran into this issue and are trying to supplement with casks that have held crap sherry in them for a couple of years and we see how well that's going. Glendronach hasn't run into this yet because they have been/are sitting on a lot of well-aged stock from good sherry casks. 

TL;DR The death of primary sherry industry will be the cause of Glendronach's decline, not the BF purchase.



Glendronach is a distillery I've neglected for far too long, having only tried their Tawny Port which was AWFUL. That kinda put me off for a while, until I nabbed a dram of the 15 Revival at the Good Spirits Co. That, paired with /u/gregbenson314's ravings about their single casks, and Scotchit's general verdict that it was most likely to be the distillery currently at its peak, put me back onto the idea of them. Anyway, here we are:

Thanks to /u/gregbenson314 and /u/jleese for the drams 

Glendronach CS Batch 2 55.2%

Oloroso and PX casks. NAS. NCF. Natural Coloured. Starting with this as it is the cheaper and un-age stated of the two.

Heavily sherried, but not just pure fruits like some sherry malts. This has a woody, almost boozy quality. I dig it.

A bit more nutty and chocolaty than the nose would suggest. Quite excellent.

I really enjoyed this, felt there was a little more to it than the average sherry bomb. Woody and malty, with quite unique nut and chocolate notes. The price is right, I'd thoroughly recommend it.

93/100

Glendronach 21 Parliament 48% 

The age statement is 21, though this is a conservative estimate. Aged in Oloroso and PX casks, this is a real labour of love. A slightly lower ABV, so my advice is not to be too liberal with the water. NCF, NC, SNP. 

Smells old, with pudding-fruit notes and an ashy background. 

Again, the same "Old" flavours, with additions of fruits and stodgy puddings. Really nice mouthfeel and a great depth and progression of flavours. Loving this.

Oloroso heavy. Not a bomb, that's doing it a disservice. It's complex and delicious , with cream, fruit, pudding and old wood throughout. Very funky too- that seems to be part and parcel of the Glendro house style. A truly great dram.

94/100

As my score suggests I preferred the 21 every so slightly, that said it is nearly double the price of the CS so if I had to buy one it would be that. I am going to pay Glendro a lot more attention now, and plan on picking up a Single Cask offering soon. Really enjoyed this comparative review, and felt I got more out of both  whiskies as a result.

Thanks for reading. 



it doesn't totally dominate. 

Which is what I love about some sherried whiskies. The 'sherry bombs' that are just sweet molasses laden thick bombs are all one-dimensional and uninteresting. Glendronach has some great examples, as does their sister Glenglassaugh. All these Macallan CS 'Sherry bombs' and A'bunadhs' etc etc can all get fucked.



Lots of people seem to dislike the 21.. I don't, I love it! Glad you do too.

The NAS CS Glendronach is one of my favourite whiskies (I personally prefer it to the 21). And I recon it's better than it's rivals (Aberlour A'bundha and Glenfarclas 105), can't believe how good it is for >?50!



Batch 4, Highlands, 54.7%, natural color and non chill-filtered, matured in Oloroso and PX casks. My price: $51 for the bottle. 

Tasted neat in a tumbler, rested about 15 minutes. First tasted neat, then with water.

Nose: Bananas, toffee, Fig Newtons. With water: brings out the toffee more with some jammyness.  

Palate: Thick, coating, and hot entry. Then explodes with fruit compote and pudding. Bananas again, more caramelized. Loads of spice, mostly cinnamon and nutmeg, a little ginger. Mocha. With water: smoother and little more subdued, still with lots of fruit and spice. More fruitcake now, with a nice nuttiness. Milk chocolate. 

Finish: Medium length, hot, and spicy. Chocolate with nuts. With water: a little tamer, sweeter and not as quite as spicy. Cinnamon raisin toast. 

Conclusion: Really good stuff. I still haven?t tried the obvious comparisons, A?bunadh and Glenfarclas 105, so I can?t say how this rates in comparison. It does seem a little young, with some definite heat. Benefits from water overall I?d say, although the flavor when neat is really something, once you get past the initial heat. Spice, fruit, nuts?lots going on.   

Buy again? Assuming the new owners don?t screw this up, definitely. I?ll be looking out for other GlenDronach bottlings as well. 

87/100



$51?!

Jesus. Good Great price! 



Wagwan /r/Scotch? Glendronach 15 revival was my first tartan review, since then I?ve been through a bottle and replaced it with the cask strength. I love the stuff.

Anyway, I thought it was about time I tried some more of their range.. So here?s a few reviews of  samples I have picked up and a bottle of the cask strength (which was as steel at ?41).

GlenDronach 12 Original

Good not great, something sits a bit off. Would definitely go for the 15 instead, extra cost is worth it.

GlenDronach 18 Allardice

Meh, this just isn?t all that interesting to me. 

*GlenDronach 21 Parliament

A bit woody but lots of berries, and I like both of those tastes. I get no sulphur in these unlike the others.  I?d rank this the same as the 15, pros in comparison: more lovely berry-ness, and wood. cons: dryness, wood and cost. can?t decide if I like the wood or not.

GlenDronach CS Batch 3

Found this for ?41. Bought a bottle based on my love of the 15, and the reviews I read on here.

Wow, sweet sherry whisky and the tastiest things I?ve tried to date if I?m being honest. Maybe a bit too sweet for everyday drinking, but it depends what you like.

Summary

Sooooo, from my samples and bottles the 15, 21 and CS are the best.. Heard some people say that the 15 is a bit sulphurous but I can?t taste it (maybe I?m lucky, or just can?t tell).

If money was no object I?d get the 21 for novelty and the CS because it?s the shit!!

Previous Reviews:

GlenDronach 15 Revival - 92 90/100 (adjusted)



Half and half.. I tried them all individually on different day and wrote most of the notes.. then to finish all the samples (and because I like comparing things side by side) I went through them vertically in one session. 

I was disappointed with the 18, and surprised by the 21 considering what I was expecting after reading other peoples reviews (but I think most of that is just my tastes). Also I'm on my second bottle of the 15 and it's not as good as the first.. It's left me wondering if their consistency is a bit up and down? Or my tastes are changing?



Let me know what you think when you've tried it.. I'd hate to think I'm giving bad advice.. For a Sherried whisky/GlenDronach lover this should blow your socks off!

In the Archive the lowest score is 86, but that's by /u/UncleTobys  who hates GlenDronach, and even he said "One of the better ?Dronachs I?ve had. "



If I had to pick a favorite style of whisky, I'd go with cask strength sherry bombs. I've reviewed a bunch of them and pretty much all of them got a score starting with a 9. Naturally, I've been trying to track down a sample of GlenDronach Cask Strength for quite awhile now and /u/madgraf swapped me a dram, so I'm quite excited to give this a go. Let's see if it continues the trend of excellency!

GlenDronach Cask Strength Batch 2

Strength: 55.2%

Color: Amber.

Nose: Fudge and sweet raisiny booze. Rock candy and plums. Gorgeous nose, and I hold cask strength sherry bombs to a high standard. A little bit of that oak to assure me that NAS doesn't mean underaged. 

Palate: Less fruity than the nose implies, more spicy and oaky. Cinnamon and nutmeg, with tobacco and black tea. Rich dried fruit. 

Finish: It has the signature bitter tannic oak that I get in many GlenDronachs, which I'm a fan of. 

Summary: This is the driest and oakiest of the cask strength sherry bombs I've tried. I definitely prefer it to the A'bunadh, and it can't touch my beloved Benrinnes 14. I don't think it beats out Macallan Cask Strength and it's better than the Signatory Tamdhu 8. It's closest both in quality and taste to Glenfarclas 105. I'd say they're even. Great stuff. 

Score: 93/100 

Scotch Review #54

Whisky Review #110

@review_bot scotch 'GlenDronach'

@review_bot scotch 'Sherry Bomb'



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's GlenDronach reviews in /r/scotch:

/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Sherry Bomb reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



I've been trying to track down a sample of GlenDronach Cask Strength for quite awhile now...

Is this hard to get/rare where you are? Cause it's everywhere where I am...



Benrinnes totally wins out. 

I like Mac CS next best because of the winey decadent quality it has. This one and the the 105 are both great as well. I'm thinking of picking up a bottle of GlenDronach CS to replace my Glenfarclas 105 that I just finished off. 



Haha, you know you've got too many swaps, hookups, and group orders in the works where "a redditor" isn't specific enough. 

My comment was referencing the GlenDronach 17 Single Cask PX Puncheon from Binny's, which someone is helping me acquire.

If the GlenDronach CS from Hi-times is also Batch 2, then I'm really going to have to get one I think. Thanks for your assistance in ordering one!



My comment was referencing the GlenDronach 17 Single Cask PX Puncheon from Binny's, which someone is helping me acquire.

Ahh! I can't believe you're cheating on me ;)

I know of some 17-21yos around town if you're ever interested, BTW.

And I just checked - if their description is accurate, it is indeed Batch 2!



Haha can you PM me about the GlenDronach Single Casks??

And nice, Batch 2 is good stuff. 



Greetings Scotchit! Today I've been home alone all day as my girlfriend is at a bachelorette party, and I decided that this would be the perfect occasion to perform the experiment I've been thinking about doing for a while. Specifically, it's a semi-blind tasting of the big three cask strength sherry bombs: Aberlour A'bunadh (Batch 46), Glenfarclas 105 and GlenDronach CS (Batch 3). Macallan CS would have been a good addition, but they decided to take their ball and go home.

I say semi-blind, because while I tried to forget which was which by shuffling them, I did still pour them so I may have some inkling. Regardless, that's not what I'm going to focus on in this review - whether or not I could recognize them is secondary to what people actually care about: which is the best?

To do so, I've poured three equal pours into three identical glasses and labeled the bottom of the glass with which is which. I'm going to review each individually and then summarize which I liked the best, to hopefully answer the question: which one should you buy?

The vitals on each whisky: 

Aberlour A'bunadh (Batch 46): 60.4% ABV, N3 (NAS, NCF, NCA), ~?60 for 700ml

Glenfarclas 105: 60% ABV, N3, ?35 for 1 litre

GlenDronach CS (Batch 3): 54.9% ABV, N3, ?70 for 700ml

With the busywork out of the way, onwards, to whisky #1!

Sherry Bomb #1
Speyside, ???

Nose: Dark, spicy Oloroso sherry. Somewhat harsh. Dark oak. Orange peel and raisins. Fruitcake. Cherry.

Dark and brooding are the words I'd use to describe this the most. It's big, that's for sure, but not quite as subtle as it perhaps could be.

Taste: Thick and viscuous mouthfeel. Juicy toffee and berries. Apricots. Candied red apple. Spicy cinnamon and cloves. Mandarins and raspberry. Light sulphur and leather. 

That's really nice. The nose implies this big, heavy oak influence, but the palate is mainly a rush of sweet fruits. Not too wine-y, just excellent overall. 

Finish: Lengthy and prickly. Lightly drying. Spicy cinnamon. Sweet maltiness. Mandarin and orange peel. Oak tannins. Raisin. Young whisky burn.

Drier than the palate, with more spices coming out over time. Oak really exerts itself, but so does the youthful component. 

Summary: This is a whisky of two halves - there's clearly some really old, really oaky whisky in this, but there's also some really young whisky - both of which come out the most on the finish.

I really do like it, but we'll find out how much compared to the other in just a bit.

Sherry Bomb #2
Speyside, ???

Nose: Rather harsh. Earthy. Malt. Cardamom. Oak. Dry wine. Mandarin peel. Green grapes. 

Very different from the first - much less overt sherry, much more malty and earthy. 

Taste: Juicy and dry. Juicy mandarin and apricot. Toffee and malted barley. Earthy spices, cloves and cardamom. Cloudberry and sultanas. Cream. 

Lots of malted barley sweetness, yet clearly sherry aged. Not as old or oaky as the first. 

Finish: Medium length and prickly. Sweet malt. Caramel pudding. Apricot. Oaky sweetness.

Rather short and uneventful, but not bad.

Summary: It's interesting to see just how different this one is from the first. Side-by-side, this is much more alcohol-forward and middle-aged, with neither the ups nor the downs of youth or age. This tastes quite even, presenting a single unified profile instead of the mixed profile of the first - I'm guessing this has a much more even age profile than the first.

I'm guessing it's all been around 10 years in sherry casks. It's good stuff, but perhaps not as intriguing as the first. 

Sherry Bomb #3
Speyside, ???

Nose: Apricot. Lemon and mandarin. Raisin. Cloves. Slight salt. Dessert wine.

This is a bit of a mid-way between the first two. It's got some of that balance of the second, but also some of the age of the first. 

Taste: Thick mouthfeel. Juicy apricots. Sweet malt. Toffee. Raspberry. Gummy bears. Sultanas. Golden syrup. Light spiciness. 

That's really nice. A wonderfully creamy, syrupy mouthfeel with lots of sweet maltiness and sweet sherry.

Finish: Medium length. Oak. Touch of earth. Cardamom and cloves. Apricot and peach. Apple peel.

Light and fruity throughout - excellent and mouthwatering. 

Summary: Sweet maltiness and dessert wine (think Sauternes) are the hallmarks of this. Really delicious throughout, I'd actually put this as my favourite at this point. It's ludicrously drinkable without being one-note.

Additionally, it doesn't have the young burn of the first, but has more of the complexity of age and heavier sherry influence that the second lacks. Just really well-balanced as a whole.

The Roundup

This is just a side-by-side round robin style tasting. No specific notes, just general thoughts written as a train of consciousness. I'm going to do 2 rounds of this, one without water and the other with 2 drops water. 

Neat: 

The first is definitely the darkest, driest of these. On the nose, it's got lots of dry oak and wine. On the palate, much juicier, like the other two, but a much younger burn. On the finish, again quite dry with a really harsh young burn.

The second is the maltiest with quite a light sherry influence. On the nose, malty and some apricot, but quite harsh. On the palate, again rather harsh, but more sweet wine influence. Rather dry, but not wine-y on the finish. 

The third falls in the middle, with the pronounced sherry influence of the first but also the malt of the second. Not much else to say, it just fits in the middle of the previous two.

With Water: 

The first definitely improves - less harsh young burn, a bit less dry oak. A couple of drops really seems to open it up significantly. 

The second gains a distinct note of strawberries on the nose - I don't think that note has ever been as clear for me as it is here. Also some more grapes.

The third turns a bit more earthy on the nose. Sweet malt, too, but nothing too new. Probably skip the water on this one. There's something sour and musty here I can't pinpoint - not bad, just strange. Grape leaves, maybe?

Reveal

#1: Aberlour A'bunadh

#2: Glenfarclas 105

#3: GlenDronach CS

Rankings

GlenDronach CS (89/100)

Aberlour A'bunadh (85/100)

Glenfarclas 105 (83/100)

Final Words

I came into this expecting to be able to pick my undisputed favourite and the One True Sherry Bomb. That didn't happen. Instead, I discovered how different the profiles on all three are. 

The Glenfarclas tastes pretty young - most of the whisky in it would probably be pretty close to its old 10 year old age statement that it no longer carries, and the sherry hasn't taken over the malt yet. 

The Aberlour tastes like a blend of ages. There's probably some insanely old casks in every batch of A'bunadh, but there's also some really young casks, probably around 5-7. Could you put an age statement on it? I doubt it, because what makes A'bunadh special and interesting is that mix of probably two to three decades' worth of casks.

The GlenDronach is somewhere between the two. I believe it's got the same malty 10-year-old base that the Glenfarclas does, but with some portion of middle-aged (15-20 year old) stock somewhere in the mix, but I don't think there's anything as extremely old as in the A'bunadh.

Maybe I'm just romanticizing the whole thing, and the difference is the proportion of first-fill and second-fill casks, their quality and the type of sherry aged in them (Oloroso or PX mostly, I'd venture). 

So, I haven't managed to pick a single cask strength sherry bomb that I'll pick over all the others, but I have managed to pick one I will try to always keep stocked: GlenDronach CS. The others may come and go, and I won't stray from buying them in the future. 

If you like sherry and you like cask strength whisky, here's my advice: buy one of these. It doesn't really matter which of them, because they're all really good in their own right.

If you had to pick just one, though, get the GlenDronach. 



Dig it. I didn't care for GlenDronach 12, 15, 18, or 21 enough to buy them again. Should I try the CS?

Also can I come over and peel the stickers off the base of your glasses? :/



I haven't much liked the standard GlenDronachs either. I've reviewed at least the 15 and 21.

I don't know why you want to scrape off labels... is it a sex thing? It's probably a sex thing...



Great work! Possibly the most useful post I've seen for anyone looking for a CS sherry bomb! 

It's making me thirsty... Going to pour myself some GlenDronach CS!



I was thinking this morning that it would be fun to do a blind taste of my Aberlour A'bunadh, Glenfarclas 105, and Macallan CS. Cool to see you had a similar idea and already posted it! Stupid GlenDronach CS barely being available in the USA...

At least it'll be cool to see how the Macallan CS compares to the other two, and whether I agree with your relative rankings of the other two. 

Now I'm thirsty. 



Greetings Scotchit! This is my first review in a week, because last week was pretty terrible (eg. stock photo because my iPad was stolen). Not much point dwelling on it, though, so onwards.

This bottle was a "bonus" from when I ordered my Alligator. It's got a great bottle design, which is nice. It's the second batch of an NAS cask strength release, clearly in competition with Aberlour A'bunadh and Macallan CS.

I've tried the GlenDronach 15, and didn't think it was all that great (specifically, too bitter). This uses both Oloroso and PX sherry casks, so it should be a bit sweeter than the 15. Will this turn me into a GlenDronach believer? Let's see.

Review #57: GlenDronach Cask Strength (Batch 2)
Speyside, 55.2% ABV, NAS, ?55 for 700ml

Nose: Oloroso sherry and cinnamon, ripe oranges and plums, milk chocolate and sweet toffee, sultanas and light ginger

Hot alcohol burn, but behind it a lot of sherry sweetness and spice. There's a lot more sweetness in this than the spicier A'bunadh. Lots of ripe or dried fruits as well. In 2 words: sherry bomb.

Taste: thick and creamy mouthfeel, cinnamon and cloves, sweet raisins and prunes, PX sherry, Terry's chocolate orange

The alcohol burn isn't as pronounced on the palate, instead there's lots and lots of sweetness. The PX shines more than the Oloroso here, and it's very much a dessert whisky. Chocolate and fruits with an underlying warm spiciness. Really very nice.

Finish: long and warming, velvety rich plum pudding, orange and sweet citrus, chocolate and toffee, sultanas, cinnamon and allspice, almonds and hazelnuts

The finish is great on this - a cask strength dessert. Fruits and slight spices round out the sweetness, making it deliciously balanced overall. Just a hint of bitterness in the background, but it's more like unpeeled hazelnuts than anything bad.

Summary: The first few drams of this I thought it was clearly inferior to Aberlour A'bunadh, but after some more drams I've come to the conclusion that these are pretty neck and neck. 

I was going to give the edge to the A'bunadh for being spicier, like a great rye whiskey, but this is very, very good in a different way. More for dessert than the main course, but this is hands down one of my favourite sherried whiskies. Not more than a hint of bitterness in it, either! 

Score: 92/100
A great dessert dram.

First time ahead of Trexid, yay!



Glendronach Cask Strength Batch 2, 55.2% ABV

Nose: Lime, pineapple and strawberries. Cinnamon rolls. Chocolate Danish. Vanilla custard. Fresh oak and conifer. Peanut brittle. Raw sugar. Faint plasticky notes and starched linen. 

Taste: Medium bodied and a bit hot. Bitter grapefruit pith and skin. Dried apricot, dates and pineapple. Sweet, yet sharp honeyed cereal. Gingerbread. Green tobacco. Lightly spiced with some crisp woody notes in the background.

Finish: Herbal ? lots of clove and anise. Candied peel. Bitter chocolate and coffee. Some flowery and grassy notes. Short, but pleasant.

One of the better ?Dronachs I?ve had. Very nice and clean sherried dram with a crisp, fresh citrusy character. Finish could?ve been longer.

86/100

Review 162



Hi everybody, I've got another holiday-review which I want to share with you:

Glendronach Cask Strength

Batch 2

Highlands, 55.2%

color: copper

nose: sherry, stollen, prunes, raisins, oak, hints of ginger and Coca-cola (TM), caramel, Bounty (TM), hint of nuts

taste: honey, redcurrant, cocoa, black grapes, strawberry tea, oak, sweet, sherry, mint, tangerine, coffee grounds

finish: long and warm

Cask strength sherry bomb at its best. Very rich and wonderfully balanced. Will definitely buy again.

88/100



How does it stand up to the Glenfarclas 105 and the Aberlour A'bunadh?

I went to go and buy a bottle of this and walked out with the Aberlour, knowing that I had a corker of a bottle for ?20 less..



I really enjoyed the mouthfeel of the 105. 

Of the two I have tried the A'bunadh wins hands down. This is my second batch (first was 42, this is 45) and it is a winner. 

I have a CS Glendronach single barrel PX from 1991. It is almost syrupy. Excellent stuff. Not cheap though...



Several reviews from a recent sampleswap with /u/mapolo29:

Balvenie 17 Madeira

43% abv.

Nose - Honey, apricots, tangy berries, some kind of cured pork (prosciutto?), brown sugar, ginger. Nice and sweet, but with a bit of a sweet, earthy depth I?m picking up as the prosciutto note. Maybe some light smoke after it sits a bit.

Taste - Honey, berries, brown sugar, and apricots, developing in to that prosciutto-y earthy note with a bit of ginger and black pepper. Largely echoes the nose. Has a nice silky texture I?ve found with other Balvenies. Nicely full flavored.

Finish - Honey, prosciutto, fruit, and mild spice. Pleasant, but not big.

This one is probably my favorite Balvenie I?ve had (no Tun 1401 yet here). Has the typical sweet, silky fruitiness I?ve come to expect from them, but with an extra dimension there I pick up as that cured pork/prosciutto note.

88/100

Bowmore Devils Casks

56.9% abv.

Nose - I?m struck by how really earthy this is ? mushrooms in red wine reduction is the first thing that comes to mind. Quite rubbery. Smoke, and a bit of oceany salinity. Cranberry juice. Interesting, haven?t come across a nose even close to this before. Gets a little less rubbery and more balanced with some breathing, along with maybe a bit of honey.

Taste - Smoke, red wine, mushrooms, then picking up some black pepper, cran-grape juice (like cranberry, but a bit sweeter), allspice, and black tea. Again, quite earthy and interesting. Full flavored and fairly richly textured, yet easy drinking for being cask strength.

Finish - A red grape juice like fruitiness with black pepper, black tea and smoke.

This one was really interesting. Quite tasty, but I think what I enjoyed most about it is that I haven?t come across anything quite like it before as earthy as it is, even compared to some of the sherried Islays like Ardbeg Uigeadail or Laga 16 ? though I think I might prefer those by a bit to this stuff, as the depth of flavor isn?t quite there like it is with those. It actually reminds me a bit of my hazy drunken memory of Angels Envy.

87/100

Glendronach Cask Strength

55.2% abv.

Nose - Raisins, clove, cinnamon, ginger snap cookies, cranberry sauce, nutmeg. Mexican chocolate with a little breathing, as the tart fruitiness fades a bit. Interesting blend of dark dried fruit and berry sweet aromas?I think I remember reading this was a combination of oloroso and PX sherry and that certainly backs that up.

Taste - Tart cherries, ginger snap cookies, black pepper, cinnamon, dried dates. Classic spiced fruitiness sherry usually brings. Somewhat heavy feel to it, but in a good way. Again, a little time in the glass tones down some of the tart fruit flavors and brings out more the dark dried fruit with a bit of a dark chocolate note.

Finish - A bit hot, but on a day as cold as it is here it?s hot in a good way. More cinnamon, clove, black pepper, Mexican chocolate, with a somewhat tart berry sweetness.

Checks all the normal sherried Scotch boxes, and does it well, with nice big, fruity, somewhat spicy flavors. I like.

90/100

Glenfarclas 105

An almost cask strength Scotch ? this is named for the proof that 60% gets in the UK.

60% abv (from the dept. of redundancy dept.)

Nose - Raisins, honey, walnuts, clove, vanilla, allspice, nutmeg, cinnamon, and raspberry. Very nice ?classic? heavily sherried nose. More balanced than many others though, in that the fruit doesn?t overwhelm the other notes. 

Taste - Starts on honey, vanilla and berries, getting spicier ? nutmeg, allspice and black pepper - and tangier (according to spellcheck that?s a word) on the development with a mexican chocolate note.

Finish - Spice lingers towards the back of the palate ?with lots of ginger, cinnamon, black pepper ? with nutmeg, vanilla and a honeyed berry note. Let it go long enough and it becomes just honey and berries.

Very nice. This has been on my to try list for almost 2 years, if it was available within an hour of where I live I probably would have got some by now. This is a very nice, powerful, full flavored sherry beast. I really like the balance and complexity this one has.

91/100



Hey thanks for the reviews!  Nice Job.  My notes for these are similar except for the prosciutto/cured meat note in the Balvenie.  I wasn't getting anything like that.  

Now I have to stop being lazy and review the samples you sent.  Looking forward to them!