My Scotch buddy came back from Texas for a few weeks, so we coordinated schedules so we could go through more samples together.  A few of these are going to be repeats for me, but they were so good I wanted to make sure he tried them.  My goal was to introduce him to the wonderful world of vertical tastings.  It was a real eye-opening experience for me the first time I did it.  It really shows a distillery's character and the influence of oak over time.  

This batch covers Glenfarclas.  Next up will be GlenDronach and then Glengoyne.  

REVIEW #102: Glenfarclas 10 year - 40% abv

Nose:  Fruity, crisp, granny smith apple, bartlett pear, mint, dry wood dust, tiny bit of that spent gunpowder note way in the back

Taste: thin, light, honey, green bell pepper / vegetal, green tea.  Pretty weak on the taste.

Finish: tiny bit of vinegar, quick, short flash of dry cocoa powder.  Pretty weak finish, too, but it?s good while it?s there.

Score: 85/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: A really easy, refreshing, light, crisp dram.  Great for hot summer days.  Reminds me of the Arran 10 and Springbank 10.

REVIEW #103: Glenfarclas 12 year - 43% abv

Nose:  Moving away from honey and toward toffee, a wisp of smoke, the apple/pear is getting a little more sour / older now, menthol, spent gunpowder is a little stronger, tiny bit of dry cocoa powder, tree bark?, hazelnuts

Taste: a little thicker on the tongue, a little more mouth-coating, definitely toffee/butterscotch, tinge of salt, cola, milk chocolate, vanilla cream, not much heat, very sweet.

Finish: Quite a bit longer than the 10yo, remnants of a vegetal note (snap peas), vanilla cream, butterscotch.  Delicious. 

Score: 87/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: A big leap from the 10yo, closer to my preferred flavor profile, if the 10yo is a summer dram, this is an autumn dram.

REVIEW #104: Glenfarclas 17 year - 43% abv - (RE-REVIEW)

Nose:  wisp of smoke, heavier than the 12yo, cinnamon, aromatic cedar, menthol, spent gunpowder getting stronger, ripened pear, buttered popcorn, dry oak, raisins, fennel, bread dough, dunnage warehouse funk, 

Taste: very buttery, creamy on the tongue, vanilla, sea salt, salt water taffy, dunnage warehouse fustiness (tiny bit), mown hay?, cherry cough drop

Finish: a touch of white pepper heat, that subtle vegetal note again, drying oak on the back of the tongue.  Dark chocolate and candied orange linger for quite a long time.

Score: 88/100 (no change)

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: It feels heavier than the 12yo, and I prefer that.  It?s a noticeable step away from the youth of the 10yo and 12yo and starts to get into oakier territory.  I just learned why the 15yo is so popular.  3% more abv and unchillfiltered, and it?s cheaper than this one.  (Sigh).

REVIEW #105: Glenfarclas 21 year - 43% abv - (RE-REVIEW)

Nose:  Thicker, heavier, syrupier, stronger cola, cooling mint, cinnamon, bit more smoke, more spent gunpowder, burnt sugar, high % dark chocolate, plum, fig, the faintest hint of an over ripened sour pear, more complex than the 17yo, hard root beer candies, heather honey, honeysuckle floral.

Taste: Oilier on the tongue, Dr. Pepper / Cherry cola, butterscotch, dry peppery oak, unsweetened cocoa powder, salted darkened butter, dunnage warehouse, 

Finish: long with lingering cocoa, toffee, hazelnuts

Score: 90/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: A lot chocolatier, each step thickens the syrup and darkens the sweetness.  The fruit of the 10yo is fresh, green and crisp, and with each step it ages/ripens/dries out.  Great dram.

REVIEW #106: Glenfarclas 25 year - 43% abv - (RE-REVIEW)

Nose:  Heavy, full, Vanilla cream toffee candy, dry oak, leather, brazil nuts, burnt peanut brittle, almonds, clove, black pepper, nutmeg, spearmint cooling on the back of the nose, spent gunpowder (this mixes a lot with the cooling mint note), anise,  

Taste: Syrupy, thick, oily, mouth-coating, fantastic.  Dark, sweet, heavy, molasses, brandy, figs, prunes, raisins, dark rich chocolate, bittersweet, mouth watering.  Orange pith, cinnamon heat.  Black peppery oak.

Finish: drying oak, slow ember of fire slides down into your chest, lingering hazelnuts, toffee, dry cocoa.

Score: 92/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Love how thick and syrupy and dark this is.  Heavy, full, spiced, dried fruits, balanced, great mouth feel, awesome.

REVIEW #107: Bunnahabhain 18 year - 46.3% abv - (RE-REVIEW)

Nose:  Dark, syrupy, molasses, floral, black tea, roses, dark chocolate, raisins, funk, anise/fennel, cooling on the nose.  Tiny hint of peat in the back. Dried fruits, dark spices.  Hazelnuts.

Taste: Oily, mouth-coating, sweet, syrupy, toffee, melted butter, bittersweet chocolate, espresso, burnt sugar

Finish: Toasted cereal, drying oak, dark cocoa powder, glowing ember of heat remains for a medium-length finish.

Score: 90/100 (no change)

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: I really dig this one.  So unlike other Islays.



Buy a full bottle? Yes

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Full liquor cabinet, empty wallet. 



Yeah.  I've been thinking about that line in my reviews.  It doesn't really say enough.  

Maybe a motivation level works better



Great reviews!

It's called a horizontal, though.

A vertical would be a comparison of different vintages of the same age.

I just realized this recently...



I think you got that backwards. 

Wikipedia says vertical tastings sample multiple vintages from the same distillery/winery to emphasize the differences in age. 

Horizontal tastings sample the same vintage from multiple distilleries/wineries to emphasize differences in distillery/winery styles. 

https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wine_tasting



Non-Mobile link: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wine_tasting

HelperBot_? v1.0 I am a bot. Please message /u/swim1929 with any feedback and/or hate. Counter: 4917



I have a scotch buying problem. There's just so much to try!

(quickly hides the 135 empty sample bottles he went through in 11 months...)  

Yeah, you should probably get some help.



Glenfarclas 10  40% ABV, $38 Boss Liquors 750

Hey Scotchit, review #19 from the independent Speyside family distillery.  This is a whisky I have heard and read so much positive about I had to buy a bottle.  I had the 105 at a bar a while back and loved it so I figured the 10 was going to be pretty good.  Let?s see.

Color:  Golden Apple juice, Amber +1.  Slow tears for a 10 year old.

Nose:  Mint, Spices; Pumpkin Pie spice, Allspice, Grass, Floral, Caramel, Apple, Licorice and Oak

Mouthfeel:  Soft liquid but thin

Taste:  Spicy; Ginger and Pepper, Woody, Floral, Soft Fruit, Radish.

Finish:  Again Minty, Cinnamon, Leather, a Bit Bitter, Vinegar

With Water:  N:  More Apples, Heather  T:  Softer, More Caramel and Strawberries

Score:  Taste: 68,  Value: 10, Uniqueness:  3,  Buy Again:  2  Total:  83

For such a well respected whisky I have to say the Glenfarclas 10 left me a bit flat. I think the youth made it a bit rough around the edges for me, so I?m betting the older expressions are likely to be better.  For this whisky I would think a higher ABV and more time in a cask could improve this dram greatly.  Water really softens the bite on this one and improves the flavor, but at 40% I feel guilty using much.  Leaving the bottle in my cabinet for a while also improved the flavor and mellowed the harshness from the initial opening. Evidently this Scotch needs time to open.  I think I need to try the 12 and 15 to gain more perspective on this distillery.    



Thanks!  I'm one of the Glenfarclas lad's here I suppose.  I love the 10 year, I think it's fantastic for the age.  The complexity and the nose are really what does it for me, although the finish is a bit weaker than other expressions.  The ashy nature of the Glenfarclas spirit really comes through here I think (and is something I find quite neat!).

I agree with everything you said though.  I wish more Glenfarclas releases had a higher ABV.  Glad you took the time for it, I think a young Glenfarclas isn't for everyone.

That said, if you have some Lagavulin lying around throw about three parts Glenfarclas into one part Lag 16.  A great experiment and a great whisky.



Reviews #124-128 (25 year posted prior)

Hello everyone! I?ve got a soft-spot for Glenfarclas? I?d even say they?re probably my favorite distillery (Despite my obsession with peat). Glenfarclas offers an incredibly high quality, consistent product that is widely available and very reasonably priced (around 150 bucks for a 25 year old whisky!). At any rate, I?ve been working on a vertical for you all? unfortunately I?m missing the 15 year from my lineup because it is not available in the U.S.

I did this review of the course of a few days, there?s going to be some deviances in depth and process because I?m just not that consistent of a person, but I would like the reader to take one thing away: Glenfarclas produces a very consistent product and the whole range is a very unadaultered representation of how a spirit progressively changes as it ages, my notes might not show that though.

Here goes!

Glenfarclas 105, 60% abv, Speyside

Nose: Apricot leather, spicy thin sherry. Marzipan. Sweet alcohol burn. Sweet ginger glaze. With some water and time there?s a heavy profile of fig pudding and plum juice.

Palate: Spicy but subdued. Viscous yet ethereal. Bit of an ashy sulfur note (which I quite like), makes for a very ?raw? experience. Leather, chewy soil, apple strudel.

Finish: Dark Brown sugar. Pecan praline, sweet wheat bread? baked with honey brushed on the crust. Apricot preserves really persist. Lovely.

93/100

Glenfarclas 10 year, 40% abv, speyside

Nose: Sweet and earthy sherry. Touch of a dishwater note. A bit of stone fruits dusted with pepper, cherry syrup. The nose is pretty rough around the edges, obviously a little too young.

Palate: Bitter cherries, slightly bitter oak, spicy? full of life but it needs some of the edge taken off. Quite the mineral profile and some sweet maltiness.

Finish: Sweet, slightly astringent? develops to pretty bitter and lingers a medium length.

83/100

Glenfarclas 12, 43% abv, Speyside

Nose: Musty, glass of dry sherry in a damp basement. Fermenting plums, dried figs, orange cr?me. Bit of a sweet alcohol presence? but it really works. Not a lot of wood in the nose, but this is a huge difference over the 10 already.

Palate: Fig Newtons, orange vanilla frosting. Spicy sherry. Noticeably more oak than the nose suggested. Sugary dough, evolving floral 

Finish: Very drying, sweet and floral.

89/100

Glenfarclas 17, 43%, Speyside

*Nose: Very spicy sherry, spicier and more full of life than the 12 somehow. Rich cognac soaked oak, stewed spiced apples, plum, raisin bread.

Palate: Almost acutely edgy oak. Slightly bitter but mostly sweet, intermingled. Floral spiced caramel, earl grey tea with paprika, clove and ginger. Very full of life, exciting stuff.

Finish: Minty, clean. Bourbon soaked wood chips, touch of grassiness? and some heathery goodness. 

91/100

Glenfarclas 21, 43% abv, Speyside

Nose: Sweet, slightly minty sherry. Very oily in the nose. Floral, cedarwaood and mahogany cologne. Persimmon cookies, plum and apricot preserves. Sweet mineral oil.

Palate: Spicy and full of life considering the age and low abv. Friendly buttery wood. Bitter dry sherry, a touch of sulfur. The edginess from the younger drams is really starting to tone down. Quite a soft floral influx moving into the finish

Finish: Bitter floral quickly moves past, sweet yet earthy vegetal profiles move in, much of the flavors are muted by a mineral presence. Satisfying long and intertwined finish.

92/100

Glenfarclas 25 year, 43% abv, Speyside

Nose: Spicy mint. Marmalade reduction. Mint transforms into a nutty citrus. Very inviting nose.

Palate: Heavy, quite a significant presence. Intensely sweet and salty. Mature oak and sherry begin to come out

Finish: Long, satisfying. Encompassing oak tangling with a subtle, ominous smoke presence. Sharp 90% cocoa dark chocolate. Lovely.

93/100

Glenfarclas 31 year Port Cask, 42.8% abv, Speyside

Nose: Plums, dripping with juice. Buttery old oak. Delicate heather. Soft pumpkin spice, apricot preserves. Some light citrus... marmalade and mandarin oranges -from a can. Dark chocolate... about 60% infused with flaky sea salt and blood orange extract. Crushed walnut with bits of shell that haven't been picked out yet.

Palate: Zesty woodiness with lots of spice, but lacking much life. Quite flat and dull. Medium oily feel (surprisingly thinner than I expected). Wood character turns bitter floral. Some muddiness to it... earthy, honey oil. Much less fruit than the nose suggests.

Finish: Sweet and vegetal. Raw wood, dusty workshop. Very drying and as it does more flavors come out. Dull bakers spices, lemon-mint green tea. Lot of mineral notes, but nothing distinct.

88/100

Very much lacking life, and the low ABV really didn't help the cause. The nose completely steals the show for me and unfortunately the rest of the dram doesn't deliver on much of what the nose promised. Still, very special indeed. Damn thing was 6 years older than I!

Some other thoughts

The 10 year old is a bit rushed, the extra two years between 10 and 12 shows a staggering increase in quality. My scores, although obviously just my opinion, tell a pretty interesting story. I can only imagine that I would rate the 15 year right in between the 17 and the 12? the quality is just that consistent.

The notes on the 25 are just copy pasted from my previous review, but I did amend my score up to 93 from 91. The bottle is pretty much empty now and my opinion has evolved as I?ve worked through it dram by dram `it?s really fantastic stuff.

Also, I came up with this little trick for keeping my whisky ?warm? during reviews (All my stuff has been ice cold despite keeping the house around 70) I just took a glass and filled it with pretty warm water and floated my Glencairn inside? kept it at a perfect reviewing temperature!

Thanks for reading!



Excellent reviews! I always like to see the bigger comparison tastings.

Also if you want to try the 15 I've got a bottle of it and am willing to swap samples.



Thank you! I'd say the 12 is a safe bet for getting your foot in the door, I can't really recommend the 10 over the 12, and if you're in the U.S. (I.e. Can't get the 15) there's a pretty big jump in price from 12 to 17. 

If you're already initiated with sherry bombs, the 105 is fantastic as well. 



105 is the English proof number. It's 120 proof, or 60% alcohol by volume in the USA. This cask-strength bottle has no age statement and is probably from casks that are 7-9 years old. 

Also, it would be "distilled in 1908" not bottled. Whisky does not age in the bottle like wine does. 



Just a quick tidbit, 105 was the original legal proofing required in England. Sailors used to be payed in what was called "the rum ration" - as in, part of their pay was literally alcohol. Since they were being payed in alcohol, they had to prove that they weren't getting short-changed. Alcohol burns around 52.5%, so a simple test proved pretty quickly whether they were being payed the appropriate amount of rum rations or not.

I could be mistaken, but that's my understanding of its origins.



Frickin' awesome.  I've only had the 12, but it was so damn good.  Must try more.  Too bad about the 15 not being available here in 'merica.  

Great review, Allumina.  



I tend to just cup my Glencairn in my hand to keep it warm. 

I've been considering a different glass, like a smaller brandy snifter, for that reason alone.



I had two. Had.

I only have one now, but damnit, its an awesome glass! Also, half the fun is saying courvoisier



Also, half the fun is saying courvoisier

Damn right, lol. It just looks kinda tacky

My wife got me mine at a goodwill!



Day seven of my MoM advent calendar.

I like Glenfarclas. Their simplistic adherence to age-statement expressions making up most of their line (alongside the cask strength 105 and the family cask vintages) feels to me a delightfully quaint picture of a bygone era in whisky. The 17 isn?t a rum cask verses a port/sherry/brandy maturation cocktail in the 21 and so on. No mucking around with cask types or buzzword marketing titles, just ?here?s the 12 year old; here?s the 15 year old.? And so on. The fact that they?re still an independent family-owned operation endears them to me further.

Of course, it?s entirely likely that this romanticism exists purely because they make some very good whisky. The 15 is a sherry powerhouse, and the only whisky I?ve kept on hand for over two years. I got to try the 40 a while ago as well, which was probably as close to perfect as whisky drinking can get. And yet, I?ve not sampled their 10 year old expression. Does enough of the brilliance of its elder lineage trickle down into this youngster?

Glenfarclas 10. Speyside single malt, bottled at 40% ABV. Local bottle price: $80 for 700mL.

Nose: Solvent notes up first, before the introduction of the red berries I always associate with Glenfarclas. Fresh strawberries and raspberries, paired with alcohol-soaked fruit cake and dried cherries. Oaky vanilla in the distance.

Palate: Spicy entry of nutmeg and ginger, before opening up to more direct sweetness of juicy plums, more winter berries, and fruit cake. Medium body leans towards full with the heavy sherry influence. Hints of pistachios and Jelly Tots.

Finish: Oaky arrival, but with a vanilla bent and consistent with the sweet profile of the whisky (no woody bitterness). Medium-long length, with stewed fruits and all the sugary sweetness from the palate swirling around.

If I have a criticism of Glenfarclas, it?s that their price does seem to be surging. $80 for a 40% 10yo does seem a bit much. But Glenfarclas 10 delivers. This whisky does things the old fashioned way, brings some healthy substance and depth of flavours to the party, and never steps a foot wrong. A perfect primer to sherried Scotch.

80/100



Story unrelated to the 10...

I met George Grant (brand ambassador/family owner) several years ago when I was working at a liquor store. He showed up at 9AM wearing a kilt (unannounced and accompanied by some suits) to taste his whisky. I told him that I'd already had the 10 through 17 so he poured everyone what he called his favorite - the 105. A solid 2 ounce "tasting" (not diluted) that he finished in moments.

He then poured all of us the 21, 25, and 30 - finished them, and went on to another 10 or so places to do the same thing. The man must piss straight whisky.



On this cross-Scotland hike I've been doing, I've found myself in a small town called Tomintoul.  Yes, it's where they make the whisky I haven't tried, it's also supposedly the highest (as in above sea level) town in Scotland. There are only 2 busses per week through here, but I've been told if I ask nicely, I can get a ride to the trailhead on the local schoolbus tomorrow morning. I'm ahead of schedule and it's raining today, so I've decided to take a day off, a zero day as hikers sometimes call it, and enjoy all the amenities camping doesn't offer.  Amazingly, there's a wonderful whisky shop in this tiny town.  Great staff, great selection.  They have a bunch of minis so I thought I'd pass the afternoon with a quiet personal tasting.  If all goes well, I'll be taking the Aberlour tour tomorrow.  Please excuse any formatting errors, I'm on mobile.

Glenfarclas 10

I had a horrible experience with my first Glenfarclas.  A bottle of the 12 that I believe is off.  I enjoyed the 10 year old 105 expression, so I'm up for giving them another chance.  I tired the 10 a while ago in a pub, didn't care too much for it, but let's see how I feel now.

Colour: light golden caramel.

Nose: Quite fruity to start.  There's sherry there (raisins, plums), but also lighter notes of citrus and melon.  Some toffee and banana are also present.

Palate: Sherry, wood, raisins, cinnamon, red apple, cranberry jam, oranges and a certain dryness that I associate with Glenfarclas.  

Finish: Alcohol, malt, pepper, and very faint brown sugar.

This isn't bad!  It reinforces my theory that the bottle of the 12 I have is off.  This doesn't deliver the depth and punch I like in a sherried whisky, but what we have is fine.

40% abv 

79/100

Other Glenfarclas scores:
Glenfarclas 105 10 Year Old - 90/100
Glenfarclas 12 - 52/100

Glendronach 15 Revival

Colour: Golden orange.

Nose: Sherry, grapes, wines, fruit cake, baking spices, wood, sweet cake, nutmeg, sugar, honey, plums, caramel.

Palate: Sherry, orange candy, plums, ginger.

Finish: Oak, bread, white wine, spices, grape juice, fruit.

A lovely nose and a nice, deep sherry profile with lots of different spice characteristics.

46% abv 

87/100

Other GlenDronach scores:

GlenDronach 12 - 85/100
GlenDronach 18 Allardice - 88/100
GlenDronach 21 Parliament- 86/100

BenRiach 17 Year Septendecim

Colour: Yellowish gold.

Nose: Peat, smoke, liquorice, strawberry, anise, cherries, cola, root beer, cough drops.

Palate: Peat smoke, raspberry jam, pepper, vanilla, icing sugar.

Finish: Iodine, ash, liquorice, honey.

Interesting, but not a huge step up from the 10 year peated "Curiositas". For a real peated BenRiach treat, try the 12 year Heredotus Fumosus.

Abv 46%

86/100

Other BenRiach scores:

BenRiach 10 Year Curiositas - 85/100
BenRiach 12 Year Heredotus Fumosus - 91/100

Edradour 12 Caledonia

Nose: fruit loops, sherry, lime, milk chocolate, vanilla, sugar, yoghurt covered raisins.

Palate: wood, raisins, sherry, strong rum flavour, reminding a lot of Caribbean cask from balvenie.  

Finish: cinnamon, pepper, brown sugar.

Overall Wonderful nose, doesn't quite deliver on its promise.  The palate is a little weak, say compared to a Macallan, Aberlour, or GlenDronach 12, however it does offer a very agreeable and inoffensive experience. 

46% abv 

80/100



Getting through a backlog of notes, this is the first chunk.

I had a 15 and 21 master of malt sample? And then someone bought me the set of miniatures.. Which was nice of them.
I went through the miniatures a bit at a time, then had half a dram of each with the 2 MoM samples to compare them all side by side.

Glenfarclas 10

Glenfarclas 12

(Think the seal may have been broken.. The levels a little low and it tasted surprisingly different to the 10?!)

Again, worried that this may not be a fair try of the 12 and that its been oxidised. Compared to the 10, more smooth finish, less strong nose, a little more green in there and not as spicy. Different, more complex, but I wouldn?t say it?s better than the 10 , I like different things about them both. I prefer some of the 10 flavours and definitely the nose but the 12 is better balanced..

Glenfarclas 15

Punchier and better flavours than the previous two, but not massively better.

Glenfarclas 21

Less tarte, less sherry but VERY well balanced.. Goes well with a bit of unsweetened dark chocolate.. Slightly milder than the 15 and has a lot less wood than the previous ones. I like it, especially the nuttyness which is new for me.

Glenfarclas 105 Cask Strength

I really liked this, it?s definitely not not as in-depth, novel or well balanced as the 21 but I enjoyed it more!. I feel a bit cheap saying it but fuck it, it's true.



Excellent reviews!  I personally rate the 12 higher compared to the 15.  I clearly must try the cask strength (21 is amazing, but price prohibitive).

God damn, what really made me want to applaud you is your flair.  I've said the same so many times that reading it just made me smile.



I preferred the 15 to the 10/12 but I wouldn't buy it.. It's twice the price of the 10 in the UK, which is outrageous, and the same price as the 105.

I actually really like how sherry the 15 is, almost chewy.. But I'm new to the sherry game, so it might just be the novelty at the moment, going through the same thing with really nutty malts. Can't tell if my opinion will change over time.



So while in Malaysia on vacation I picked up a Glenfarclas three-pack of minis containing Glenfarclas 10, 15 and 105. I'm generally not a sherry fanatic, which means my sherry vocabulary is pretty limited as well. However, in an attempt to broaden my horizons I shall now do a Glenfarclas vertical.

Glenfarclas 10, 40%

Nose: sherry, honey sweetness, raisins

Taste: sherry, apricots, malt, syrup

Finish: sherry sweetness, slight sulphur note, medium length

Conclusion: Sweet sherry bomb. Pleasant enough, but a bit one-note and light-bodied. There's nothing much wrong with it, but it doesn't inspire. A decent daily dram if you like sherried Scotch. That's about all I have to say. Onwards!

Score: 81/100

Glenfarclas 15, 46%

Nose: sherry, oak, dark dried fruit

Taste: dry sherry, oak, spice

Finish: woody, sherry, dry, long 

Conclusion: Much woodier and less fruity sweet than the 10. There's a bit more complexity as well. I'm actually not sure I like this more than the 10 - it's almost excessively dry. I'm marking it two points below, purely because I'd rather have another glass of the 10 than this.

Score: 79/100

Glenfarclas 105, 60%, NAS

Nose: sherry, dried fruits, alcohol

Taste: sherry, warming fruit, sweet

Finish: sherry, sweet, medium-long

Conclusion: Tastes much closer to a cask strength 10 than a 15, but the lack of age statement implies it's younger. It does taste quite young and spritely, which isn't necessarily a bad thing This is pretty good - falls a bit short of Aberlour A'bunadh, but it's a good sherried whisky. And I do like cask strength Scotches - this one's not even that harsh in your mouth, but somewhat harsh on the nose. Falls about in between the two, so there you go - easy score.

Score: 80/100

Overall, I'm not super enamoured by Glenfarclas, but it is better than the Glenfiddich range. I'd take a dram if offered, but I probably won't seek out full bottles of any of these.



I would pick up (another) bottle of the 105 in a heartbeat, if I could. Unfortunately they have stopped importing it here (only the 20 Y.O. which is considerably more expensive).

The 105 have always been one of my favourites and if you like powerful, rich and full-bodied Speysides, as the A'Bunadh, I can't imagine you will regret a 105 purchase.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with two quick reviews.  I dont know why I don't buy more Glenfarclas.  Bort:

Glenfarclas 10 year old 40%abv 

much like its siblings

88/100

Glenfarclas 21 year old 43%abv

a pleasure to partake

93/100

What can I say about Glenfarclas that I havent already?  The standard line is all very similar and good besides the Portwood one.  I should really review my cask strength bottle, I keep forgetting.  faclas=yummy

the years make them slightly richer per iteration but I doubt if I did a side-by-side I could accurately pick which was which.. not sure, but would be interesting.  I still think the 12 is really good and very underrated. 

Glenfarclas 12 year old - 91/100

Glenfarclas 17 year old - 92/100

Glenfarclas 25 year old - 94/100

Glenfarclas 31 year old Portwood - 93/100

Glenfarclas 40 year old - 93/100



nice.  I'm stuck here at work wishing I could drink.  if only it was the 70s again.  

on the plus side I'm going to see Captain American at midnight.  



My brother saw it last night, his girlfriend fell asleep and he was unimpressed. Hopefully you enjoy it more than them haha

I'm still kind-of working. Puttering around on some stuff I need to work on tomorrow and binge-watching House. 

It hasn't been lupus yet.



and my 105

I can pretty much guess what the 15 will taste like.



Got this on a whim, it was on special at a store I was buying some wine at. Not too much experience with the distillery, although I know it well. Independently owned, using traditional methods, mainly produce very sherried whiskies. This is a mix of 1/3 un-sherried and 2/3 sherried casks (butts) if I understand correctly.

Nose: Young spirit. Treacle. A misty room full of dry wood (dunnage if I have to give the smell a name). Ripe banana. Old books. Sherry, in between sweet and dry. Definite herbal note. Bit of aniseed. Caramel pudding. Oatmeal with brown sugar and cinnamon. 

Palate: Cereals, very lively. Salt. Ripe red fruits. Raisins. White wine.  Dry wood. Bit of unsweetened espresso.

Finish: Medium. Dry sherry and rich chocolate covered fruit which fades fast and leaves a longer salty wood note with a hint of salted butter. 

Rating: 7/10

A solid 7 for me. The nose is a bit on the sweet side of sherry for my liking, but the palate and finish were fine. Not too much complexity, young and sherried, but it's cheap and readily available and certainly far from a bad dram. Good bottle to keep on the shelf for guests or when you just want something simple. 



Oh man, you just broke ALL the policies!  

No man everyone can say whatever they want here.  Some people don't like sherry and that's cool.  Have you tried it since you first opened the bottle?  

Also, doing a nose/flavor breakdown doesn't require any special skill just some time and effort.  



I have noticed a distinct change in flavor in about half of the whiskies I own.  It definitely happens through oxidation and for some reason certain bottles require some "air time."  That's to say, open the bottle have a taste, close it up.

You are storing your bottles out of direct sunlight right?



I don't believe in oxidation.

Also reviews and profile breakdowns are all personal. I really like some stuff a lot of people hate and hate a lot of stuff people like. Whatever floats your boat.



...don't believe... oxidation...  What?  

I said things were personal in my post above (not the one you responded to).



I was being lazy and responding to the whole string in one post, it's past my bedtime. 

And yeah i have some bottles that have been  open for months, some even 2 or 3 years, no real change. I just keep them upright in their boxes/sleeves. 



I've yet to mention my favourite aspect of some whisky pubs in Edinburgh; Flat out, no joke, they have "Whisky of the Month/Week/Day/Moment" all over the place. Actual, hand written, chalk signs that say "Hey, buy this one, it's on sale/tasty".

In Canada that never happens! What the heck? Why hasn't this spread around? Come on North America, this could be awesome! Go to your window right now and demand it!

Anyway, I walked into the Black Cat, a nice hole in the wall with about 200 different whiskies, and they had such a deal: Whisky of the Month (along with other whiskies from other regions for the month).

This month? It's Glenfarclas 10, and for 2.50 quid a shot, I couldn't pass it up. I've heard a lot about the sherried malts, and never had a chance to try them. Let's see if the bargain was worth it!

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Price: $59.95 (CAD)

Colour: Brass & Old Blood

Nose: Strawberry, cherry, sour, perfume

Very simple nose. I spent quite awhile trying to figure this out, yet at the end I just had these four notes. Not that it's a bad thing, yet I expected at least one non-Sherried flavour to come out.

Taste: Strawberry juice, nectarine, wheat germ, cream, blackberry, orange

For a bargain, and I do love my bargains, this has a nice mixture of flavours to it. Almost like a weak smoothie from a health store.

Finish: Smoke, tannic, oak, dry, chili powder, pear

That finish has some surprise elements to remind you that it's still a whisky, and not just an overproof sherry. Big, big dry notes, which I'm not a fan of too much in fruity drinks.

See, my brain says "Hey, this is liquid, and fruity, so therefore it's wet". And then some dryness shows up, and my tongue gets in a fight with my brain, and I end up at two Xmas' each year where I get more and more gifts from each of them and some snide remarks. It's just awkward.

Conclusion: For the simplicity of the dram and the dryness in the finish, I still like this better than some other entry level malts from other distilleries. It has the basics, the taste is okay, and I may end up with two Xboxes... I mean, it's tasty.

76/100

Scotch review #86, Speyside review #26



I have a review of the 15 going up next week. I'm not really a fan of adding water to my drams, so I didn't for either.

I actually really liked the 15 and didn't have the same issue as you. Maybe try it again with a little water? It is 3% stronger than the 10.



Given the amount that Glenfarclas is sherried, it's almost required. Think of it as a new beast and you should be okay.

Or have some brandies for awhile, and then Glenfarclas won't seem as tough.