Good evening, Scotchit! In preparation for an upcoming swap on /r/scotchswap I came across a few archaic samples I had forgotten about. One of which was at least a year ago since I swapped. Over the next few days I plan to review all of the four I?ve found thus far. Tonight I?m starting off with Glen Garioch 1797 Founder?s Reserve. It?s an NCF Highland bottling at 48% ABV.

Glen Garioch 1797 Founder?s Reserve NCF 48% ABV

87/100



Hey all, another review, this time with a picture attached.  

Glen Garioch  Pronounced Glen Geery for those of you not in the know.

48% ABV, $35.99 at Daveco Liquor Denver Co

Color: Golden Coppery Amber

Nose: Floral, Carmel, Heather, Spice, Grapes, Sherry, Lemon, Apple

Taste: Hot, Cinnamon, Chili Pepper, Fruit and Fruit Rind

Finish: Malty, Syrup, a decently long finish

With Water:  

Nose: Almond, Vanilla, Apples

Taste: Honey and Malty

I found this little beaut for a pretty decent price IMO,  and liked the tartan box so I thought I'd give it a go.  I believe the higher alcohol content does make this scotch a bit hotter/spicier than some I've tasted.  Over all a nice dram, quite a bit of flavor for a good price.  No real peat in this one, and as they claim to be one of the oldest distilleries in Scotland, Eastern Highlands, in the past they were more known for their use in blends like Vat 69.

My overall scores:

Taste - 68/75

Value - 10/15

Uniqueness - 4/5

Buy Again - 2/5

Overall - 84/100



I had some Glen Garioch 12 when I was in Colorado in October. I remember not thinking much of it at the time, to the point where it'll be hard to buy another bottle anytime soon. This does sound more interesting than what I had, though.

I'll also admit to being in the camp of pronouncing it wrong... that was until about a month ago when I saw a pronunciation guide.



Did they lose their way, or is it just the age that does it justice? I don't have notes on it, but I remember thinking how uninteresting the 12 was. 

I'll definitely give it a shot if I see it though.



Review #77

Thanks to /u/Rockindaddy for this sample!

Glen Garioch Founder?s Reserve, NAS, NCF, NCA, 48% ABV, Highlands 

Nose: Red and green apples. Baking spices? cinnamon and nutmeg, peach tart. Honey, honeysuckle, table salt. Caramel and oak.

Palate: Toasted oak, malty and sweet. Vanilla, cinnamon, apple pie alamode. Spicy. Almonds, salt? saltdough.

Finish: Tangy, bitter, warming, dry, tannic. Lemon juice, toasty wood. Sweet and tart fruits, cranberry juice (unsweetened). Heath chocolate bar makes its way out in the end.

86/100

Tastes almost exactly how it smells, pretty rare that I find that. Tasty stuff!



this is my newest favorite in this category of flavor (like Islay or Sherry).

the light crisp white fruit to it, like Glenfiddich 12 but way better and what Glenfiddich 12 might taste like if it was NCF and a higher abv.  right now same price too. no contest. 



I didn't quite appreciate Glen Garioch until I heard Rachel Barrie's unbelievable description of it on the K+L podcast with David Driscoll.  I've had a soft spot for it ever since.  If you have a chance you can check it out here for free (number 3 on the list):

https://itunes.apple.com/us/podcast/k-spirits-journal-podcast/id413579900



Another from my MoM advent whisky calendar. I am far behind schedule, and have stopped counting, but I will review all the whiskies new to me (a couple are being skipped due to planned reviews in future, or having been reviewed previously).

I have tasted two old Glen Garioch independent bottlings in the past, and found myself suitably unimpressed. However, I am, of course, open to being surprised by the official bottling. What particularly impresses me is that Glen Garioch bottle their entry-level expressions at 48% ABV. Good move.

Glen Garioch Founder's Reserve. Highland single malt, matured in a combination of bourbon and sherry casks, and bottled at 48% ABV.

Nose: Young. Vanilla oak, crisp granny smith apples, and a sharp, stinging alcohol note. Lacking any real complexity at this point; difficult to distinguish from the classic style of entry-level Highlanders, albeit stronger.

Palate: Full-bodied, sour entry, with underripe tomato, green kiwifruit, and lime citrus. Vanilla malt, and a slight hint of tropical fruit (rockmelon, as well as some soft mango). Hot and spicy, with black pepper dusted generously throughout.

Finish: Jumps up a level on arrival, with more bright citrus, and spicy cayenne pepper. Dries out at the front rather quickly, however an earthiness of red wine tannins holds a medium length in the throat. Smallest hint of burnt sugar gives a subtle sweet twist at the end.

The higher strength does not appear to have added much in the way of complexity for this young whisky, but it is impressively powerful. The profile is not my jam (similar to Clynelish, Oban, etc.), but I have to admit that it does that style well.

A quick Google search was not able to find this for sale in my country, so I cannot comment on value. Should this be comparably priced with, say, Clynelish 14, I would probably pick this over the Clynelish.

80/100



I think Uncle T told me that once, and I couldn't be bothered checking whether he was right so that's the way I've been saying it since. 

Pronouncing "ioch" as "y". You're not making it very easy for us, Scotland.



I think if you knew what a value this was, you might score it higher. While I've seen K&L frequently put this on sale for $28, it usually sits at $38. For that price, I think it's an INCREDIBLE value. Clynelish around here is typically $55 or so. 

For just a few dollars more than Glenfiddich 12, I think this has way more to offer. 



Glen Garioch Founder's Reserve

Colour: Golden yellow.  Suspect caramel.

Nose: Honey, spices, fruit, wood, slight sourness, caramel.  Nice, but nothing special.

Palate: Honey, heather, cream, spices, beautiful sweetness, butterscotch, clove.

Finish: Sweet and Spicy, a hint of wood.

This is a no-frills heaven. It's not a peat monster nor is it a sherry bomb.  It has no fancy finishing.  It's a classic Highland spirit. Generously bottled at 48%.  You get your heather and honey mixed with your sweet and spicy qualities.  What to say.  It does the job and does it incredibly well.  It's a bright whisky with no age statement but not detrimentally so.  Add a drop of distilled water to bring out the simple yet lovely flavours further.  This goes down so easily, I went through this bottle quicker than any other I've owned.

90/100



I've just picked up a bottle of this, and am struggling badly with it. I'm assuming it's the 48% ABV, but it screams at my palate and nose.

Great butterscotch-y mouthfeel, and I definitely get the fruit and wood as well. It all just seems a few years immature and would do much better at 40% (which I never thought I'd say)

All the same, glad you enjoyed it and I appreciate you posting the review!



Hello Scotchit Texacer here with another quick review.  As stated in an earlier post I was looking for a good whisky that wasn't Sherried, or Peated, or Smokey.  I got some good suggestions but in the end this bottle sold me to try. Glen Garioch 1797 Founder?s Reserve NCF 96 proof.  Recently I haven't been doing the gamble bottles.  I know what I like now and don't usually just grab a new bottle off the shelf on a whim.  I decided to trust my instincts.  Basically, I was looking for something like Macallan Fine Oak, since it is being discontinued.  Something malty but not tame. I've been drinking a lot of bourbon lately and now have a taste for things of the like.  Vanilla.  I think I picked a good one.  pronounced GLEN GEEREE... of course it is...

Good stuff. Only cost me $40 which is $30 cheaper than the Macallan 15 fine oak I was going to buy.  And this is NonChillfiltered, and a better ABV.  Think sweet honey, almost like a stronger Glenfiddich 12.  Bigger better flavor though for what it is.  I still love my Peat and Sherry but I really wanted something at the bar that wasnt bourbon that was also a nice lighter flavored Scotch.  I think I found a winner here.  It does the job. It won't blow people away but sometimes I want a malt like this guy.  Sweet and to the point.  

I haven't posted a review in a while on here.  Like I said I've been preoccupied with bourbon recently.  Although I haven't posted all my reviews to /r/bourbon.  I don't think I can do each individual bourbon justice with a nice explanation for each one because of how similar a lot of them are.  So I have just been posting my simple notes for them on /r/whiskeyreviews. 

91/100

ps

To my secret Admirer:  I must say I have a good deal of respect for your downvoting resolve.  I'm really kind of flattered that you would take so much time out of your day to personally downvote everything I do.  Don't let me deter you, it's nice to know someone is spending so much time looking at all my comments and posts :)

cheers to you friend. 



Who did you piss off?

This one sounds good, I think I'm going to order a bottle. Thanks for the review



Shrug, I don't know, someone who thinks I care about internet points.

when are you going to move to America so I can send you samples?



I know, and I said that:

I don't think that price is proportional to how good a bottle is



I think you can just create a reddit bot that's programmed to follow a particular user around and immediately downvote any time they post. Just to let you know so you can henceforth remove your respect for the individual.

It's me.

No, it's not.

Yeah, it is.

Not really.



I got a chance to try their range... this, the 12, and a few of the specific year releases, at a whisky event a bit ago. Really impressed by the whole line, good shit. 

And I honestly can't stomach buying Macallan anymore... I just don't think it's worth the asking price, and am still a little bitter about CS. 



seriously, how they get geeree out of that is beyond me.

I'd agree with bee's wax, I actually have some honeycomb right now in the pantry and its delicious by the slice. 



O: ?s,?l?u? u??l???sn? ?o u??????? ??? ?o ?uo s,?? ?q??? ?O ???p ??? su??????q 'no? ??o?u?op o? s?uno??? ?ld??ln? ???? ?????p? ????nl ? ???l ?u???oN

FTFY



Glen Garioch Founder's Reserve

Highlands, 48%

Thanks to u/thatguy142 for the sample.

color: gold

nose: apples, dog rose, caramel, honey, love hearts candies, tiny hint of sulphur

taste: apples, honey, lime, ginger, caramel, malt, unripe bananas

finish: touch of dryness

Palatable but unspectacular malt. NCF and relatively high ABV, like an enhanced Glenfiddich 12 yo. Good value for money.

84/100



I swear, you're always the first person to post in community reviews.

Palatable but unspectacular malt.

Pretty much this. I've tried a few OB and IB Glen Gariochs and they're alright, but I can think of better stuff to buy.



This is a NAS, and non-chill filtered entry level from the Glen Garioch (pronounced ?Glen GEErie?) distillery. The label says this ?illustrates the distinct house character - honey sweetness, hints of heather and just a touch of spice?. 48% abv.

Nose - A rather sweet, honeyed, floral note is most prominent. Pretty fruity too, as I?m getting a nice red berry note as well. Behind that are some oaky spice notes - black pepper and clove especially, and a little nutmeg and allspice as well. Floral and fruity notes have an interesting way of integrating here, it?s almost like they?re separate, but one thing all at once, if that makes any sense. Not real assertive, but well balanced.

Palate - Sweet honey/floral note right away, quickly followed by some strawberries. As is progresses, I get the pepper and baking spice, malt, and eventually a slightly unpleasant rubbing alcohol note...I guess the youth had to show up somewhere. The sweet and spice notes are a bit bold, the lack of chill-filtration has served this one well. Medium body, feels a little oily.

Finish - Spicier here - ginger, black pepper, and clove, with some of the sweet floral/honey/fruity notes as well. Unfortunately, the rubbing alcohol note is here too.

This has some nice stuff going for it - I really like the fruit, honey and spice notes, but unfortunately the youth shows itself a bit too much. Despite this one not being terribly impressive, I am interested in trying some of their single cask releases and IB?s.

78/100



bought this on a whim after taking a shining to the classic look of the bottle and packaging. Figured it could just be a lesser known, under-appreciated dram and felt like giving it a try! NCF, pronounced Glen Geerey. 

Appearance:  dark amber/orange colour and generous thick legs

Nose: heavy nose that I can smell from a couple feet away. Diving into the glencairn, the aromas are a bouquet of green fruit, honey, lavender, and spices. Can smell the 48% heat.

Taste: just a fantastic mix of flavours! Sweet honey, green apple, spiciness, but I can't place it, maybe cinnamon? Nutty, malty and earthy. Incredibly rich. After adding a TSP of water to reduce the heat, and got a chocolatey note and way more tannins and oak. absolutely fantastic. 

Finish: long and warm. Sweet honey and vanilla linger. Very hot on the tongue.  

Rating: 90/100

this one made the 90 cut and is delicious and layered. Water really did it some favours too. at only $55, it's cheap by Ontario standards and I'd recommend anyone in the province to get their hands on a bottle!



i didn't take to it the first time i tried it

I didn't either, and I've only had it once. I may need to give this one another shot. 



Special thanks to /u/muaddib99 for the swap for this one, much appreciated!

Let's be honest: When most of us hear of a commemorative bottle that is NAS, we don't automatically think "Wow, that's going to be amazing!"

We think... well.... that'll cost a bit more for almost the same. And a little bit of that drunk child inside all of us dies a little. Because this should be like the gold version of original Legend of Zelda, not a gold plastic version of the master sword with the Triforce worn off

So Glen Garioch 1797 Founder's Reserve is one such bottle. It's the second in the traditional line of Glen Garioch, with the 12 being the other. In 1997 they started back up again, no longer peating their whisky. This version replaced the 15 year, which you can find my review at the bottom.

Let's see if this is worthy of Wisdom, Courage, and Power.

Price: $59.85 (CAD)

Region: Highland

Abv: 48%

Colour: Light Amber

Nose: Lemon, honey, cardamon, melon, ginger, perfume, nectarine

Nice strong nose. The kind of nose you'd expect to rise up in a group of thieves and take over. Or be a pig wizard, we can't keep it straight.

The honey takes centre stage on this one. Keep that in mind if you pick it up, as that'll be the main note in the nose.

Taste: Peach, dry, yeast, leather, grape, allspice, cantaloupe

Very dry, but balanced dryness. There's the sweetness that balances it. 

It's wise to have balance. Granted it would also be wise to attempt to setup traps to guard yourself against an attacking madman that keeps happening over and over, so maybe wisdom isn't working that well.

Finish: Butterscotch, butter, light cinnamon, blackberries, dry, oak, peanuts

Sweet, buttery finish, with more dry fruit flavours. It's a courageous mixture at the end, with strong elements having the guts to come forward.

Conclusion: You'll have to check out my link to my past review on the 15, or just take my word for it: This is a slight improvement over the 15 year. It's not just a commemorative money grab, it's a good NAS whisky for a decent price.

82/100

Scotch review #178, Highland review #35

Other Glen Garioch reviews:



glad you enjoyed it! i rated it quite a bit higher, but definitely got similar notes when i reviewed it. I see they've upped the price on this one too... it was $55 not long ago. 

have you tried the 12yr? I had a dram a couple months ago and found this NAS version much nicer than the 12.



Decades is wonderful, if you can find it. I liked the old 15, however I'm in the minority on that.

The 20 year old 1993 Old Particular is really tasty.