What is up scotcher, Ardbeg_head here with a review I wrote up months ago that I am finally getting around to posting.  Glengoyne is a highland whisky technically located in the Lowlands.  Glengoyne is not a name that is often thrown around here which I believe is a shame because it is a very good whisky for a reasonable price.

Glengoyne 17

43% ABV

Nose: Sweet vanilla wheated bourbon.  Candied apple sugar, caramel, grass and raisins.  Citrus peel and chocolate with a  tad of oak.

Palate:  Really rich enveloping chocolate.  Vanilla, sweet raisins and a tad of wine.  Cirtrus rumcake with an oily full body.

Finish:  Salty coffee.  Lots of coffee in fact.  Long and enduring.

Overall:  A fantastic bottle for anyone's collection.  Great depth and sweetness to it.  Very rewarding.

84/100

Glengoyne 21

43% ABV

Color: Dark bourbon/prehistoric amber.  I suspect that the types of barrels used for the 21 is very different than the 17.

Nose:  Whoa.  Already these four years have made a tremendous impact.  Honey, toffee, rumcake, caramel and vanilla rush in.  Raisins, marmalade and wheat.  Super complex and sweet.

Palate:  Wow again.  Remarkable expansion of flavors above with oaky sweetness and a bigger more active raisin.  Spicy oak.  Bit of a pleasant sour taste.  Bitter, bitter chocolate.  Vanilla.  Awesome creamy body.

Finish:  Cleaner more fresh gourmet coffee with a hint of dark cocoa.

Overall:  Awesome rich chocolate but for my money I would probably go with the 17 year old.  

88/100



I did not want to say anything, before i posted, but...

I've bought a bottle of batch 37 for the FANTASTIC price of...............
32$. I'm working on getting 4 of them and will post a pic.

Least the anticipation got started.











REVIEW #100: Glengoyne 21 year - 43% abv

Nose:  Dark, heavy, molasses, dark burnt sugar, dark spices, clove, nutmeg, cinnamon, dried citrus peel, chocolate covered crisp apple, spiced banana bread, peppermint cools the nose, damp earth (dunnage warehouse), slight musty basement, floral, honeysuckle maybe, salted caramel toffee, definite fruitcake confection and dried fruits, toasted almonds, raisins, cocoa powder, peppery oak, floor wax, sour cherries, creme brulee / custard, fudge brownie, walnut or pecan? 1 drop of water: A subtle fruity jam note appears, raspberry preserves maybe.  Espresso.  Honey.

Taste: Slow development, soft on the tongue, increasing oaky peppery bite, bittersweet syrupy burnt sugar, dark kitchen spices, hot cinnamon, nutmeg, dark chocolate, cola. 1 drop of water: what was a thin mouthfeel is now viscous and oily/mouth-coating.  Same flavors, just softer and more subtle.  

Finish: Dry oaky tannins at the back, slowly the drying effect extends across the top of the tongue, but underneath it?s still mouth-watering.  Raisins, dark bitter chocolate, nutty, burnt sugar sweetness.  Cola.  Bittersweet overall.

Score: 91/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Dark, heavy, oaky, syrupy.  Bittersweet is a combination I haven?t really encountered before.  I like it.  Reminds me of Nestle?s Tollhouse Cookies with the semi-sweet chocolate morsels in them and chopped walnuts.  Glengoyne 18 was a winner for me, this is right up there with it.  I loves me some dark and heavy whisky.  I sat with this one for a good 45 minutes enjoying every bit of it.  A great one for #100.  Beautiful.  I love this game.



Glengoyne facts!  

Glengoyne's distillery is in the Highlands, but the warehouses just over the road is in the Lowlands.  

Glengoyne is next to a small hill, Drumgoyne.  The lovely view from the summit is improved by a dram.

When Glengoyne's Royal Warrant expired, they cheekily replaced it with a very similar logo.

Glengoyne lies on the West Highland Way, one of Scotland's most popular hiking routes.  

Glengoyne was featured as an unnamed distillery in the season 5 opener of the superlative Scottish sitcom Still Game: "Drama"



43% ABV

Nose: A light prune juice and tobacco juice cocktail.  Old, dusty leather.  Just the right amount of spice.  Not too powerful, but muted to the point that they are difficult to separate from each other.  There is however, some cinnamon and nutmeg to be had for sure.  The nose is inviting and well mannered.  Sour cherry candies.  An interesting caffe mocha note buried amidst hazelnut and almond essence.  Not overly big and juicy, but lighter and yet still complex.

Taste: The arrival is a bit subdued.  The sherry notes don't rush at you in a wave, but are carried more slowly.  A little thin on the palate.  Candied ginger, old plums and mandarin oranges.  Toasted oak.  Cinnamon and beef jerky.  Stewed tea.  It gets better after every sip.  The flavors seem to concentrate somewhat over time, upping the enjoyment level.  Burnt butterscotch and caramel.

Finish: Not overly long, but it does amp up the spice levels and the sherry notes are reduced.  They form a little sherry bubble, that begins to form, then quickly bursts, allowing the drier oak tannins and spices to take over.  Very little, to no alcohol nip in this one.  Cocoa powder on a tea biscuit.

This one actually seemed even older than what it really is.  Very calm and dangerously easy to drink.  One could easily find the bottle empty in short order.  The lower ABV helps bring this about I think.  Very reminiscent of Macallans of old.  I wouldn't call it a sherry bomb, but the sherry notes are top notch, if a little lighter on the nose and palate.  I am curious as to what the outcome would be at a higher ABV.  I'm hoping to get my hands on the higher ABV 25yr. one day.

90/100



Thanks for the review. I like your flavour descriptions - very clear, and evocative.

I think "subdued" describes this one well - along with seeming old than it is, and easy to drink. Certainly nothing wrong with it, but it doesn't stand out very much for me.  Personally, I prefer the Bunnahabhain 18 (which is a similar style with a bit more character, IMO).

I hear very good things about the Glengoyne 25 yo ... hope I get to try that one one of these days.



Glengoyne 21 Year ? 43%, $150 

Nose: Strong Sherry, dates, figs, meaty, fruity, slight musty, dark honey, slight funky cheese, slight dark caramel.  

Taste: Strong sherry, coco nibs, malt, meaty, dark honey, oak tannins. Light mouthfeel. 

Finish: The sherry becomes very dry, the malt holds as some berry fruits come up at the end, the oak holds to the end as well. Medium length.  

Notes: This defiantly is older tasting and there is a lot of oak. The nose is very vibrant but the taste and finish are a little thin and weak. I would classify this as a gentle and older sherry bomb. I would rather they at least release this at 46% to keep some of the strength from the natural oils.  

86/100 



Yeah, the reviews of the 25 make me want it in a big way.  

Must... save... money.



Glengoyne 21 Year Old

(43%, ex-sherry cask matured)

?

The cask recipe for this is 100% ex-sherry casks, predominantly 1st fill European oak sherry casks.

Thanks to u/Boyd86 for this sample!

?

Nose: Black licorice, leaves, plums, citrus cola, apple cider, fruit cake, danishes, faint hint of spent matchsticks 

Taste: Root beer, molasses, salted chocolate, tobacco, coffee grinds, brown butter, tangerines, pepper

Finish: Black cherries, cinnamon, cocoa powder, tea leaves

? 

The nose starts off slightly musty (think decomposing leaves), with a pungent sweetness in the form of a dominant black licorice/anise type note. With time, fruits in various formats and breakfast pastries with the barest hint of sulphur. The taste is surprisingly bitter on entry in contrast, with the sweetness subdued, but still present. Buttery in texture, but the flavours are thin and typical of 43%... that is to say, muted. Fruity notes come back on the finish, with a dusting of cocoa and cinnamon. The texture is chalky and drying now. 

A good dram with the potential for greatness. Would love to try this at cask strength. Being at 43% definitely holds it back? while packed full of flavor and enjoyable for what it is, the watered-down nature of the taste/finish just doesn?t fully satisfy. Having said that, points for being well-made and interesting (the highest I?ve rated anything at 43% in fact, partially due to the fact that it does retain so much flavour despite the handicap), but ultimately loses points in the end for only teasing its full potential.

?

87/100



That's a thing?? I knew they did some young ones, but not that old! 

I'd love to get my hands on one, some day.



Great review!

Someone needs to update your tartan (hint, hint)

I manged to get this on sale.  Seems interesting but also what I had feared about it being at 43% - your notes remind me (in their mutedness) of the Glenfarclas 25 I've tried.  Good but at such a low ABV it's just muted



A good dram with the potential for greatness. Would love to try this at cask strength. Being at 43% definitely holds it back

Yup



Thanks for the review.

I've tried this one twice now, and can't get excited about it.  Just seems dull to me - hard to believe it is mainly first-fill sherry casks.  I'm usually a fan of that profile (which may be the problem - I'm expecting too much here).  

Sadly, I'm not really getting the tea/tobacco notes (which would certainly have helped!).  Agree it is probably the low ABV that is holding it back.  The cask-strength Glengoynes I've tried have been better, even the younger ones.



Hi Scotchit! I'm beginning my week-end with a miniature named

Glengoyne 21

Highlands, 43%

color: mahogany with an orange tint

nose: heavy sherry, blood oranges, spearmint, malt, jute bag, nail polish remover, spiced bread, rhubarb

taste: sherry, blood oranges, hint of bitterness like medicine, cola, cinnamon, honey, oak, hints of chili

finish: medicinal bitterness, dry, oak, lingers

Massive sherry. A lot of oak too, but slightly bitter. A bit watery - sigh.

A sherry bomb that was aged too long (and not in the best casks probably). Bottling a 21 yo with 43%... *shakes head.

73/100



YES. Go buy the Teapot Dram. AMAZING.

They also have a bottle-your-own straight from the cask, which was fantastic.

I picked up one of each.



The other day I was really having a craving for sherry and the only sherry bomb whiskies I had were closed. I?ve been trying not to open every whisky I have, it?s being going well and I didn?t want to ruin it. Luckily I had this sample lying around and I figured it would hit the spot.

As Glengoyne?s expressions increase in age they add a higher proportion of sherry matured whiskies into the mix with this one and the 25 year old being entirely sherry matured. I tried the 25 year old a while back and loved it, a truly stunning expression, but sadly way beyond my budget. The 21 year old is within budget, albeit expensive, so I thought I?d get a  sample to try it out. Unfortunately it fell into the black hole that is my sample backlog for a while.

Aged 21 years. 43%ABV. Matured in sherry casks. No colourant added. 

Nose: Treacle. Sweet wine. Fruit cake. Jam biscuits. Bit of plum wine if you hold the glass far from your nose. Dirty, sulphury sherry. Cadbury?s Crunchie. Ginger. Hint of apple cider. Cacao.

Palate: Bitter citrus. Tobacco. Coffee grinds. Bitter sherry wood. Marmalade. Bitter chocolate. White rabbit. Pepper.

Finish: Medium. Bitter chocolate. Radish. Orange peel. Canada Dry.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 4/5

This definitely satisfied my craving for a sherry bomb. As usual a fantastic subtle malt with a huge sherry influence. However I found the palate and finish a little too bitter and they did not really deliver all that was promised by the nose, still a lovely whisky and fantastic quality for the price asked.

Reviewed in my blog:
https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2016/09/03/glengoyne-21/



Glengoyne seems to be one of the be one of the better producers of sherried Scotch as it stands today, and is one of the few that pops to mind when someone would ask for a recommendation for a nice sherried Scotch (along with Glenfarclas, Glendronach, and some Aberlours). I haven?t had this one yet, but my hope is this is a slightly more budget friendly substitute for the 25, which is fantastic stuff. This one is bottled at 43% abv, so I bet it?s smoooooooth.

Nose - A rather nice, rich, if a bit gentle sherried nose. Raisins, mexican chocolate, clove, allspice, gingerbread, fruitcake, a little black pepper. Eventually I get some earthy leather and tobacco notes as well.

Palate - Starts on dark chocolate and cinnamon, with some coffee, clove, tobacco, and black pepper building on that as it develops. A bit drier than I anticipated, but not in an unpleasant way. Medium-light body, with a somewhat watery feel - definitely chill filtered.

Finish - Coffee, dark chocolate, black pepper, clove, tobacco. Becomes almost bittersweet (in a good way) as it lingers. Nice, but a bit shorter than I really would have liked.

Very good stuff, but not quite great. I?d put this on par with Glenfarclas 25 and Macallan 18 in my list of sherried pours I would say that about. The balance and depth this one has is very nice, I think the only thing holding it back is the 43%/chill filtration.

89/100



Thanks for the review.

Agree that this one has a nice nose, but I personally found it to fall flat in the palate. Surprisingly light and watery - agree the chill filtering is likely the culprit. Seems oddly out if place, given the otherwise quality presentation.



Friends of mine have different tastes in whisky. One is the person who gave me the plan to use the Munsell Colour chart. She doesn't like Speyside whiskies, and we recently determined it was due to the sheer amount of oak in them.

The other is my oldest friend and the man who was my best man. He likes alcohol of all types, and we used to be Vodka drinking buddies. He has a varied pallette.

So when I say that both of them agree that this is one of their favourite drams, it should hold some gravitas.

Thus I had to try it. And since trying Glengoyne 21 meant I had to visit them and had to make a big ass order from two different whisky companies and then two more (I am so forgetful), I guess it all worked out.

So there's that...

Uh...

How about the weather?

Oh fuck it, I guess I have to review the dram. I haven't really been able to try many Glengoyne's, which is too bad. I mean, it's Highland whisky matured in the Lowlands. That's crazy enough for someone like me to want to try.

And they once made one in Scottish Oak Wood. That just sounds neat! Oh well, let's stick to Glengoyne 21, which is matured in first filled European oak sherry casks.

Enough jibber-jabber, let's see how this one tastes, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Highland

Abv: 43%

Colour: 7.5YR 5/8

Nose: Papaya, Sprite-y, caramel, earth, roses, birch, raspberry, nectarine

Immediately the long period of Sherry is evident. it's spritey, which I have trouble using because I use Spell Check and also because I don't know how to explain it. It's like how spices make your tongue pop with excitement. Except now it's in my nose, and like one ex-girlfriend used to say, I think I like it (she wasn't a keeper).

Nice light notes here. Good amount of floral, earth, and even strong caramel notes.

I'm a happy person about it.

Taste: Strawberry, anise, pepper, cherry, brown sugar, brown butter

Again, the sherry takes centre stage at first, yet doesn't become to overwhelming. Yes, there's a lot of sherry in here. Yes, I'd probably say it's more than I'd typically want.

That said, how do you disagree with brown sugar and butter? Unless you're on a diet then "I guess I want to see my kids grow up", then that's how, but still... it's really tasty.

Okay, fine. There's a little too much sherry influence. I still enjoyed it.

Finish: Cherry, basil, cashew, anise, melon, ginger

Sherry influence? Yes.

As much as the taste? No. Maybe too much? Kinda, but not really the point. The earth spices as well as the nuttiness balance it all out, so I can't stay made at it.

Conclusion: So yes, I bought into the hype from two of my friends on this one. And I can see the flaws in it for those reasons.

Looking past that, I also see a really nice drink. Something that isn't 100% sherry, that doesn't just taste of sherry notes, and that still whispers "hey, I'm whisky, also I'm inanimate and you may need to consult a psychiatrist because I shouldn't be able to speak".

So I enjoyed it. I was all set to either hate or love it. Because I knew I wouldn't 100% agree with my friends. Do I love it? No, I want more whisky influence and I want more Abv.

Otherwise I want a bottle. Heck, in spite of that, I want a bottle.

84/100

Scotch review #396, Highland review #76, Whisky Network review #606

1001 Whiskies to taste before you die review #264

101 Whiskies to try before you die review #62

Other Glengoyne reviews:

Glengoyne 10

Glengoyne 1998 (Malts of Scotland #1131)

Link to my website with all my reviews



Nice review, don't down play it. Loved the joke about the colour.

If I wasn't in Canada and therefore fighting uphill to get samples just to buy, then I'd probably buy it right now.



Sadly no bottle of Glengoyne 25 for me, clearly I need to pick up more bottles. 

There is a 28 year Glengoyne, it even comes with a really stupid box - http://i.imgur.com/SppnhkN.jpg 



Dang, I gotta try that! And prostitute myself to afford it...

Looks like a bottling that isn't too recent.



It's quite good. Phenomenal is a little heavy. What it does is have some really good flavours that are well put together. It's not as complex as some of my higher scoring whiskies.

Also, based on my Stats, you'll note that an 84 is pretty high for me.



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.43   

Standard of Deviation = 10.15   

Skewness = -2.67780 

Kurtosis = 10.70333 

Median = 80 

IQR = 8.75



Is it okay to be biased to Glengoyne because it's my local distillery?

Well.. now I've moved to NJ it isn't, but I found Glengoyne 12 here for $37.99. In the actual distillery it costs ?36 so I've found myself a bargain!