Howdy, scotchiteers! MSheinberg here with a quick review of the Glenmorangie Artein, graciously provided by Cpelletier89 in a scotch swap. I got so excited when I got the package this morning that I just had to dive into the Artein. My glassware at work isn't ideal but it'll do the job for a quickie review...

Ambience: The store just opened, and it's the calm before the purchasing storm.

Color: Deep nut brown with tinges of blood orange peel

Nose: honey, caramel, slightly salty, earthy (white mushrooms that just hit the melted butter in a pan), candied lemon peel, the alcohol threatens to overwhelm the nose.

Palate: cinnamon fireball candies, red berries (grapes??)Molasses, malty, definitely winey

Body: Syrupy, it's so full!

Finish: Long, rich, sweet and more of that fireball going down.

Overal. This is fun. I just had a little nip for now, and poured the rest into the bottle to re-evaluate with water when I get home.

Preliminary score: 93/100

About the Artein: Glenmorangie has started an annual tradition of putting out a higher-end that is finished in a different wine cask. This year, the Artein was finished in Sassicaia barrels (for those of you who don't know about Sassicaia, it's a Super Tuscan from Italy and can often go for hundreds of dollars a bottle, even in bad years, and sometimes thousands for a great year.)



I'm the spirits buyer in a NYC store.

My thought on the whole concept of "finishing" is mixed. If you have a good QC, then you can make what is otherwise the same whisky and give it a completely different range of flavors and aromas. However, Morangie has had some QC issues, as has been expressed in some of the other scotchiteers' reviews of their finished whiskies. 

That being said, I think they probably take a little more care in their Artein, Signet, etc. high end series. I like the signet for its uniqueness in the chocolate malt, the artein is not necessarily my style, but I do appreciate the craft that went into making it...especially with my former appreciation of Sassicaia and its ilk



I've only had the "original" from the recommended document and it was so-so.  Thanks for your response :)

What is QC?



I've also seen complaints about their other offerings like Lasanta and Quinta Ruban too, though I've been lucky so far. I'm not super fond of those or nectar. The orginal is better, imo. Astar is excellent and Signet is quite unique and tasty . 

I haven't had the artein, but it sounds really good. Nice review!



I'm there Sunday 12-8 and mon-thurs in the afternoon and evenings (usually leaving around 8:30pm). 

I'm the guy with the beard. Pretty unmistakeable. 



Glenmorangie Artein - 46% - $84.99

15 years extra matured, Tuscan Wine Finish, Non-Chill Filtered

Bottle open for about 2 months, 2/3 full

Color - pinkish orange

Nose - floral, grape Kool-aid, cocoa powder, light acetone

Taste - almost brandy like warmth but harsher, very slight light smoky mint, Five-Alive,  a strong oaky red wine presence, fresh pipe tobacco

Finish - lingering perfumey oak,  light saltiness appears on the lips, gentle stomach burn

This basically reminds me of a grown up Quinta Ruban.  It has a more refined flavor and creaminess to it and definitely has that perfumey wood quality that all the Glenmorangies I've tried so far seem to have.  

I think it is a bit pricey for what it is and should probably been aged for a little longer to mellow it out.  This gets docked a bit in the value area.  Fortunately, the 46% ABV seems like an excellent strength.

85/100

My dog Keyo gives it a WANT MOAR 



Lol I do the same exact thing with my dog... If I don't, he likes to try to get a sip directly from the glass while I'm not looking.

I would agree with the docking for price. I got my bottle $15 off, so that helped inflate my score. At full price, this bottle loses a lot of points.



Hello /r/scotch - here with my thirteenth review. I picked this up a couple of last year when I bought the Ealanta. These were the first two private editions of the Glenmorangie I had tried. I believe I paid about $99 for it.

Nose Very sweet - remarkably similar to the Companta which I just reviewed a few days ago. It has a little more spice in the mix, but also lots of dessert wine type flavors. Vanilla, the malt is quite evident, grape jam, and raisins.

Mouthfeel Oily & thick - very nice

Palate Grape jam persists along with apples, cloves, pepper. It's not quite as sweet as the nose lets on, and definitely a little less sweet on the palate than the companta. The cloves/pepper compliment nicely.

Finish The spices and the malt really shine here. The oak which previously was pretty subtle emerges.

Balance I think does what the Companta failed to do which is to balance the stewed fruits/very sweet wine with some spices to make it less two dimensional. It's still a little sweet for me I think, but comes closer to coming together perfectly.

Rating 90/100 - A very nice dram overall - I think if it were a little less sweet, it could be a couple points higher, but if you liked the companta I'm sure you'd like this as well.

Value for the money I don't know how many of these are sitting around at this point, but at $99 it's not a bad buy. I would add the same disclaimer as I did to the companta, that if you don't enjoy sweeter whiskies, this one will not be worth the money for you.



So I don't know if this is my favorite of the Private editions or not... I really like all of them for different reasons. Actually, the Sonnalta for my tastes is the weakest of the bunch. I need to go back and revisit them all, as I've only had a small amount of each so far. Great review, I think our tastes are very similar!!

P.S. thanks for the scotchswap!! I'm going to have to dive into those SAOS soon!







Glenmorangie Artein      88

The 3rd Private Edition has done better than any other malt at converting naysayers of red wine finishes, and it even ranked well up against its Sonnalta PX predecessor.  It?s 15 years old (partly 21yo) and aged in Sassicaia casks.  I think of the Artein as the best representative of the Glenmorangie style: light/crisp/clean, but full of quality fruits and nuance.

Similar Malts:  ?? If you think of one, let me know.  I?ll go with: Tomintoul 12, maybe Glencadam 12 Port or Kavalan Vinho



Glenmorangie The Artein, 46% ABV, 15 Years Old.

Color: Light brown with just a touch of ruby. Like a perfectly cooked marshmallow.

Nose: Starts with a light, delicate floral scent. This flows into scents of honey, citrus, and a touch of mint.  Ends with a bit of sweet, rounded, maltiness.

Taste: Very light on the tongue, medium-light body. Begins with very sweet, fresh fruit (Perhaps apricots?) and a bit of oak. More sweet honey, citrus, and mint. 

Finish: Warm, spiced, medium length. Still fairly sweet with a touch of sweet cream, but lacks complexity.

Overall: This limited edition Glenmorangie is by far my favorite expression of theirs that I?ve had thus far. It is very tasty, well balanced, and nicely priced. It?s a wonderfully sweet and delicate malt, but it is fairly straightforward. The finish leaves you wanting a bit, but the rest of the experience is very enjoyable. I would recommend those who enjoy sweet single malts to pick up a bottle.

Price: $65

Taste: 72/75

Value: 13/15

Uniqueness: 3/5

Would buy again: 4/5

Total: 92/100

Addendum: I'd like to point out that, however this number is markedly lower than my rating for the Quinta Ruban, that was my first rating and it was fairly inflated due to inexperience and inebriation. This is the best Glenmorangie I?ve had.



The mint was just barely there at the end of the nose and just a bit of the flavor... More of a nuance than a really pronounced flavor.

I agree that the high ratings its received thus far may be a bit inflated, but I guess that's part of the fun and one of the downfalls in a rating system based mostly off your personal preference and perception.



Glenmorangie Artein 15, 46% ABV, Natural Color, Unchillfiltered. /r/scotchswap sample.

Color: Apple juice (dark).

Nose: Red grapes, sour berries, honey.

Taste: Not pleasant. Mint, gin-like botanicals, bad red wine, dark chocolate, chili.

Finish: Stale coffee, citrus, more bitterness.

Overall: Weird. Way too winey and unbalanced, without any malty sweetness. Not a fan. Of Glenmorangie I have tried the original 10, the Lasanta, and the Quinta Ruban. This is easily the worst IMHO.
65/100.



I'm sorry you didn't like it. I really like Glenmorangie, and the Artein is one of my favorites of their line. It's been a while since I cracked open my bottle. I'm going to go back to it tomorrow to see if I can pick up any of what you detected in it.

For what it's worth, I think the Lasanta and the 10 are Glenmorangie's weakest offerings. If you want a better experience, you might try the Nectar D'Or, the Astar, or the Finealta (if you can find it).



Jumping on the liberal texan train!

The Glenmo Artein is a limited bottling considering of 15 and 21 year old whisky (2 parts 15yo 1 part 21yo) and finished in Super-Tuscan wine casks.

Non chill filtered and bottled at 46% vol.

Nose: Dry, riesling? - then after breathing for a while: berries, malt sweetness

Mouth: Tad winey but works well here, fruity, berries

Finish: Lots of peaches, malty, tad oak - well integrated, Kinder chocolate, medium long with a bit mint lingering at the very end.

Comment: Never thought I'd enjoy a wine finish that much, but this works very well. Needs some time to breath in the glass, water doesn't harm either. 

85 points

For comparison my other two Glenmo reviews

https://docs.google.com/spreadsheet/lv?hl=en_US&hl=en_US&key=0AsnkEzAVwhUVdF91M3R1NFdvQWYwY1JEeHNpNnZCbVE&type=view&gid=0&f=true&colid0=1&filterstr0=DE884&colid1=3&filterstr1=Highland&sortcolid=-1&sortasc=true&rowsperpage=250



Rockindaddy?s review series # 45.  Reviewing the swaps!

Glenmorangie The Artien:  46% Swap 

Color:  Amber +2  Coats glass Nice, Slow Even Medium Tears

Nose:  Malt, Orange (Grand Marnier Liquor), Vanilla, Fruit, Cinnamon, Hard Candy, Sherry or Red Wine,  More Zest of Orange  and Candy as it opens.

Mouth:  Oily, Warm, Zesty

Taste:  Malty, Floral, Black Pepper, Chocolate, Bitter Tea, Syrup, Raisins, Marmalade

Finish:  Dry Wood, Orange Pith, Zest, Wood Sap, Sweet Spices, Herbs, Wine, Candied Fruits

With Water:  N: More Cinnamon, Citrus Fruit, Honeysuckle
        T:  Pepper, Raisins, Orange Zest and Oils, Vanilla 

Score:  Nose: 22,  Taste:  22,  Finish: 23,  Balance:  19  Total:  86

Very nice nose, lots of fruit in the taste, fairly long finish, a bit too sweet on the overall balance. 

Overall I have to say I am a fan of the Glenmorangie Distillery.  My wife and I are plowing through a bottle of Lasanta at one hell of a rate.  The Artien is good, but it almost tastes like a liqueur, like Grand Marnier, instead of a single malt.  Perhaps this is due to the type of cask that finishes it, the Sassicaia, a red Italian wine, that adds its very fruity character.



I've tried quite a few Glenmorangies, but three limited releases that have eluded me for some time finally made it into my glencairns thanks to /u/madgraf! Let's go!

Glenmorangie Artein

Strength: 46%

Color: Amber. 

Nose: Classic Glenmorangie orangey nose, with apricots and some sherry-like notes. Malty grain notes. 

Palate: A little salty at first, with a mild and malty palate. Lots of mineral notes, I don't think I've ever tasted a whisky that is so mineraly. It's such an unusual taste, hard to describe. 

Finish: Heavy mineral notes and citrus linger a bit. You won't forget what you were drinking after sipping on this, it's so very unique. 

Summary: This is unlike anything I've ever tried. It's quite odd, and I like it when distilleries experiment with different methods to produce interesting whiskies like this. Unfortunately, it's not hitting the spot for me, but somebody out there is buying every bottle they can find of this because there's not much that's even close to it. 

Score: 84/100 

Glenmorangie Sonnalta PX

Strength: 46%

Color: Slightly darker amber. 

Nose: Raisins and sherry, deepoak and chocolate. A little of the signature Glenmorangie orange. This isn't as sweet as I thought it would smell since it's finished in a PX cask. 

Palate: Raisins again, and more chocolate. Dark dried fruit and cocoa. 

Finish: Oaky and a little bitter. 

Summary: It's not very sweet for a PX cask. The only other sherried Glenmorangie I've had is the generally disappointing La Santa, and this is a welcome improvement. That being said, while it's a tasty dram, it isn't going to compete with many excellent sherried whiskies from Speyside. 

Score: 88/100 

Glenmorangie Finealta

Strength: 46%

Color: Slightly lighter amber. 

Nose: Oooooh some peat in a Glenmorangie! A little smoke but some sweetness too, and that Glenmorangie orangeTM that I keep catching in these whiskies. 

Palate: Soft peat, savory meaty notes, and smoke. This is how you do a peated highland malt. 

Finish: Seared scallops (as in smokey char paired with a salty seafood note) that's pretty interesting as it fades out. 

Summary: This is fantastic! Perfect level of peat for my taste, all the good savory peat flavors of smoke and salt and meat without the iodine and band aids. I dig it. 

Score: 93/100 

Final Thoughts: The cask experimentation that Glenmorangie does with these special releases is really cool. I'd have a hard time picking out another distillery that has so many different expressions that showcase as many finishes as Glenmorangie while still holding true to the same base spirit (well, other than Bruichladdich anyway). Some experiments work well, some not so well, but regardless it's through experimentation that awesome whiskies are produced. 

Scotch Reviews #56, 57, &amp; 58

Whisky Reviews #112, 113, &amp; 114

@review_bot scotch 'Glenmorangie'



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Glenmorangie reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Glenmorangie Finealta

Strength: 46%

Color: Slightly lighter amber.

Nose: Oooooh some peat in a Glenmorangie! A little smoke but some sweetness too, and that Glenmorangie orangeTM that I keep catching in these whiskies.

Palate: Soft peat, savory meaty notes, and smoke. This is how you do a peated highland malt.

Finish: Seared scallops (as in smokey char paired with a salty seafood note) that's pretty interesting as it fades out.

Summary: This is fantastic! Perfect level of peat for my taste, all the good savory peat flavors of smoke and salt and meat without the iodine and band aids. I dig it.

Score: 93/100

I just recently found a bottle of this sitting on the shelf at MSRP... lovely to read your review... haven't cracked it yet.  



It's sort of like Glenmorangie's homage toward Highland Park which isn't necessarily a bad thing

That's a great way to sum this one up. I suspect that if I had tried it blind I would have guessed it was an island whisky. 