My second review here, another Glenfiddich. I will be starting to mix it up after this though as I've began to purchase a lot more varieties of scotch. Hope you enjoy. :)

Glenfiddich 14 years aged Rich Oak Edition

40%, ?35 (although I only have a miniature)

Colour: yellowed caramel.

Nose: starts with Apple cider, then some caramel shortcake, chestnuts, and then the strong oak influence breaks through

Taste: bursts with Rocha pears and granny smith Apple's, the oak then comes to the taste, then rich caramel, vanilla, a faint spice/peat begins to come through but doesn't turn into anything

Finish: the Apple taste lingers for a while, but breaks off into a faint spiced cask flavour. Medium in length.

81/100

Really enjoyed the Apple influence in this along with the obvious oak flavours. A little more spice on the palate would have been better I think. Not as complex or fruity as the 15 yr Solera, but richer than the 12 yr.



Greetings, Scotch battle fans! Today I?ll be sharing the results of a whisky duel that took place over the weekend between two Glenfiddich offerings of similar age and strength. It was a long-fought battle and while both whiskies led with their strengths, there could only be one winner.

The Glenfiddich 15 year is well known worldwide because of its unique solera vatting process and is one of the best selling ?fiddichs in the United States. The way it works is that 15 year old whisky is moved into a large vat made of Oregon Pine that is always kept half full. As some of the spirit is removed from the vat for bottling, more 15 year whisky is added to replenish what was removed. That means that in theory, each batch bottled contains older and older whisky. Because the vat exceeds 700 liters of volume, any time that the whisky spends in the vat is not officially recognized under the Scotch Whisky Act. That means that the whisky that goes into the solera vat has already spent 15 years in a mixture of sherry, bourbon and new oak. Yet when it is drawn from the vat, it is officially still only 15 year old whisky. Once it?s drawn from the solera vat, the whisky spends a few additional months in marrying tuns prior to being bottled.

Glenfiddich 15 Year ? 40% ABV - 750 ml

Overall Thoughts: I?ve had the opportunity to check out the solera vat in person at the distillery and let me tell you, it?s really impressive. You have to climb a flight of stairs alongside it just to get to the platform near the opening (here?s a picture of it). I took a good whiff of the whisky inside and I reaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaally wish this would be bottled at a higher strength. There a ton of flavor missing from this at 40% ABV. It?s still an awesome and unique concept and a decent whisky to share with friends.

SCORE: 85/100

Glenfiddich 14 Year Rich Oak ? 40% by volume ? 1L

Overall Thoughts: I first had a dram of this with Ian Millar, global brand ambassador and former distillery manager for Glenfiddich. It was actually the first of many incredible whiskies I had that day, but that?s a story for another time :) I asked Ian why we don?t see this on shelves in the United States and he told me that it?s because the 15 year does so well in the states that they don?t want to cannibalize those sales with a 14 year old offering.
In any case, I picked this bottle up at the duty free shop on the way home from Canada a few months ago. I prefer this one over the 15 year and I wish it was easier to get in the US because it?s truly unlike any core range Glenfiddich out there. Highly recommended!

SCORE: 87/100

WINNER: GLENFIDDICH 14 YEAR RICH OAK



I wish it was easier to get in the US 

And now I do too.  Sigh



Hey there scotchiteers, hailchaos here with my 15th review, and today I'll be reviewing the 14 year old Rich Oak from Glenfiddich.  This dram was acquired via a swap from /r/scotchswap with thatguy142 - cheers sir!

Glenfiddich 14 y/o Rich Oak , 40%, Speyside

Color - amber +1 gold

Nose -   buttery oak, milky vanilla, honey cereal (frosted flakes, but not as sweet), and light hints of spice

Taste - lots of wood, syrup, toasted hazelnuts, humid forest air

Finish - prolonged oak

Overall:  A very enticing nose - just smelling this stuff tells me it's going to be good - it better be good.  The woodiness is right up front on the taste, followed by some quick sweetness, toasted nuts, and mellowing into humid forest air in the fall. The finish is short (40% after all) but the taste of wood and nut sticks around for quite awhile.  This is really tasty and easily drinkable, too bad it's not available in the US :(.

89/100



it's not available in the US

Bummer, seems right up my alley!



At the moment I don't have much of a collection-- 1/3 of a bottle of Highland Park 15 and half a finger of Balvenie Caribbean Cask, but I'm in the market for a few new bottles and would be happy to get something to swap with.

I've never swapped with anyone, how do we do it?



Having just received my first swap over in /r/ScotchSwap I simply couldn't help myself from having a wee dram. 

Glenfiddich Rich Oak

Price: N/A

Color: Whisky.

Nose: Notes of red apple cider and buttery toffee crunch all on top of a heavy base of freshly sawn lumber.

Palate: Spicey. Woody. Lightly fruited and tinges of nittiness. 

Finish: A long-lasting dry spice with smacks of dried fruit and oak.

91/100

The nose on this is to die for, and the palate and finish don't disappoint, either. From what I can gather this isn't available widely in the US, and that's a big disappointment. 

If I have the same experience with the rest of my swap's drinks I'm going to be with heavy heart-- having just a small sample left after this tasting makes me sad!



I?ve occasionally said around these parts that Glenfiddich doesn?t get the appreciation it deserves; that (and sure, maybe this is damning with faint praise) there?s no one out there who does non-craft presentation whisky better than the Glenfiddich. Combined with its availability and downright reasonable pricing, I actually think there?s a lot to like about the distillery. They?re even independent!

Glenfiddich 12 is a better whisky than it has to be, considering it?s the best-selling single malt in the world, and the 15 Solera is one of the whiskies that sealed the deal for me in discovering that I really enjoy whisky. And when they do show some spirit?as in the cask-strength 15 year old Distillery Edition?they only get better.

So I?m inclined, generally, to give them a chance now and then. Which is why I picked up the Glenfiddich 14 Rich Oak?a fourteen year old whisky finished in a combination of new American oak and new Spanish oak for up to twelve weeks.

Glenfiddich Rich Oak 14 Year Old Single Malt Scotch Whisky; Speyside; William Grant & Sons; 14 years old; 40% ABV; 750mL; retails for about $55 Cdn. in Alberta

Appearance: Deep gold? But suspiciously orange-ish in tint, and certainly artificial. Legs are unremarkable. I do love Glenfiddich?s bottle and packaging.

Nose: The signature pears I get from Glenfiddich are here, but a bit more muted. Orange soda (but like off-brand orange soda, or C-Plus or orange Gatorade). Tropical fruits (mango? Papaya?). Very sweet, with an almost artificial sweetener twang (I don?t know if that makes sense?). Vanilla. A bit of sawdust? Lumber. Stale beer. Cotton candy. At times the vanilla and the pear notes do really seem to integrate into a nice yoghurt-y, fruity creaminess; at other times they seem all over the place. Light white grape or Mr. Freezie. Hints of something floral, grassy. A bit of lemon? Maybe throat lozenges? So a bit of a mixed bag.

Taste:  Light in flavour, thin in mouthfeel. Sweetness. Pears, peaches, orange soda (and orange curacao liqueur). Melon (cantaloupe?). Not much in the way of alcohol heat or spice. Some cinnamon. Notes at times that are kind of nebulously similar to bourbon, but hard to pin down. Lemon Lifesavers candy. A touch herbal. Dries the longer it?s on your tongue, shifting from quite sweet to quite tannic and dry. And yet with a lingering kind of artificial sweetener metallic twang. At the back of the tongue, something reminds me of fried plantain chips.  

Finish: Dry, tannic. Char, lumber, toasted lumber. Base of chalky vanilla with waves of distant fruit, the pears and peaches. Orange zest. Leafy greens. No real persistent heat, fades pretty quickly aside from the lingering woody dryness.

Final Thoughts: I wanted to like this one better than I ended up actually liking it. I?m beginning to realize that virgin oak finishes in Scotch are something I tend to like more in theory than in practice (I love bourbon, shouldn?t I love other whiskies aged in new oak!?). Seems the addition of new oak finishing seems to both up the sweetness and the bitterness at the same time, if it's not done carefully (I'm thinking also of the finishing done to Woodford Reserve Double-Oaked Bourbon). On its own merits, the 14 Rich Oak is not bad, but in context it?s a disappointment?it costs more than the 15 Solera and isn?t as good. Honestly, I?d actually take the standard Glenfiddich over this as well. Nothing really bad or truly off here, but this one?s sat on my shelf, going unconsumed for months and months.

Score: 80/100



Yeah. Like I said, it's really just sat in my liquor cabinet untouched for so long, with only a few glasses missing. It's fine, but there are so many other options when I'm reaching for a drink.

I think at least part of my indifference stems from picking it up while I was on more of a bourbon kick, hoping the new oak would give it a touch of that bourbon-y character. And it sorta does, if you're squinting, but then just why not drink actual bourbon?



/u/headlessparrot's  reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Greetings, r/scotch! Rmill3r here with another whisky review. I got to try this as a sample thanks to /u/thatguy142. Thanks for the dram, sir! Apparently, this is not available on U.S. soil, so let's hope I don't like it too much . . . 

Glenfiddich 14 Rich Oak, Speyside Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 40% abv; not available locally but $53.85 for a 750mL bottle according to Master of Malt; enjoyed a neat dram

Atmosphere: Enjoying the sweet croons of Goldfrapp's newest album, Tales of Us.    

Color: Filtered apple juice, or pale gold

Nosing: Oaky, woody, plump purple grapes, assorted nuts, slight sherry, bourbon, an underlying musky note that came with time. 

Tasting: Sweet but primarily spicy. Still has a watery mouthfeel, but has a nice peppery tingle to it. Creamy vanilla and fresh dark fruits, plus a little bubblegum.  

Finish: Smoking fruits, warming, fairly long, vanilla.

Score: 88/100

I tried this in tandem with Glenfiddich 12 and 15 again. It's certainly a standout of the bunch, and now, yes, I am sad and wishing this were sold in America. Still, I think I'll give the slight edge to the 15. I'm compelled to bury my nose in the 15 for hours, and while this is certainly great, it didn't give me quite the same feel from the get-go. The finishing in virgin oak is what truly makes this whisky, though. Even though it's still at a measly 40% abV (shame on you, Fiddich), the finish is what gives this dram the kick and oomph it so desperately needs. 

Water did interesting things to the nose but entirely killed the palate and finish, so I would prefer this neat. Glenfiddich continues to wow me for doing great things with a branded presentation (caramel coloring, chill filtration, and 40% abv), and the 14 Rich Oak is no different. 

Related Reviews



Did a swap with /u/dustlesswalnut a week or two back and this is #3 of 4 samples he sent me. Without further adieu, let have a look at:

Glenfiddich 14 Rich Oak

Strength: 40%

Color: Golden brown.

Nose: This has a perfume-like sweetness to it's nose, with a hint of alcohol in it. Smells a bit like bourbon, actually. The characteristic Glenfiddich apples are in there, but much more subtle than in the 12.

Palate: Not surprisingly, there's rich oak right up front with a little vanilla. It's awfully aggressive for 40%, there's quite a bite to it. If Glenfiddich made bourbon, this is what I'd expect it to be like. This doesn't have the complexity of the 18 though, and really seems to be mostly showcasing the woody flavors.

Finish: This guy has some burn going down, and the finish hangs out for a bit. The oakiness trails off and leaves a little bit of a bacon-like aftertaste. Not really what I was expecting there.

Summary: Basically, this seemed like a Scottish bourbon to me. I would definitely recommend this to a bourbon drinker who wanted to get into scotch, and in some ways this is kind of like a dumbed down Ealanta. I was curious about the aging, and sure enough this is aged in virgin oak casks, which explains the bourbon like quality (I love it when I get this kind of thing right). It's an enjoyable dram, but I really don't think I'm a huge virgin oak fan, so I suspect my score is a bit on the low side. Don't let the 40% ABV scare you away, this is still plenty hot and definitely doesn't seem watered down.

Score: 83/100 

Scotch Review #15

Whisky Review #19

Glenfiddich 18



Glenfiddich 14 Rich Oak, 40% ABV

Sample courtesy of my favourite Dane, glinsvad.

Nose: Rich oak. Vanilla, butterscotch and ripe fruits. Creamy malt, wood smoke and spice.

Taste: Oaky richness. Warm, malty and buttery smooth. Salted caramel and a lot of spice - white pepper, cinnamon and nutmeg. There's also a strangely sharp saltiness on the sides of my tongue. 

Finish: Rich oakiness. Herbal honey, some more vanilla and a pinch of salt. Short to medium and passable.

Phew, that was an easy one... this dram is not bad! The nose is sweet, fruity and creamy whereas the taste is quite savoury and spicy. However, the finish is a bit of a letdown. 

I'm glad I got to try this but I will not be buying a bottle. Nice whisky but a bit boring.

80/100

Review #51, thanks for reading.



90 AUD, not sure how much it is in the US.

I got this sample from glinsvad who lives in Denmark. He would have paid about 35 EUR



A good present scotch for someone who you don't know exactly what they like? 

Nice review, thanks. 



Depends. I could think of better things to spend 90 bucks on. I don't factor price/value into my reviews but if I did, this would rate considerably lower. 

I'd go the Glenmorangie Original; it's cheaper and quite nice. Or if you really want a 'Fiddich, go for the 15yo Distillery Edition; it's about $100 and higher ABV.



I guess the Glenmorangie is a value for money option. I always forget about them, I've got the Nectar, and it's not my favourite whisky, so I tend to disregard the rest. Ill move past that one day. 

Thanks.  



Weekend greetings Scotchit! I'm sipping some 14 year old Glenfiddich that was finished in new wood, let me tell you about it:

Glenfiddich 14 Rich Oak

Speyside, 40%

color: golden

nose: tangerines and oranges, perfumed soap, oak, apricots, vanilla, cake

taste: spices, vanilla, nuts, oak, hints of fruit salad and mocha-chocolate

finish: weak

Soft, fruity nose. Tastewise pretty complex and spicy. The oak is quite prominent. The finish could be longer and more distinctive.

I'm not a fan of virgin oak whiskys but this one's quite good; it has the right balance between oak, fruits an spices. 

84/100



My girlfriend got me this as a gift. I'm not a huge fan of Glenfiddich (read: I won't buy it but if you give it to me I will gladly drink it), I find that they have a lot of gimmicky expressions and the more aged whiskies are based more on the brand and the packaging than the quality of the dram itself.

Nose: Oak (duh). Apples. Clementine peels. Halls Honey & Lemon cough lozenges (note to self, use for hot toddy). Brown sugar. Stewed pears in wine sauce. That distinct bourbon vanilla. Rich sticky fruits like dates and guava. Some peanuts.

Palate: Some heat on the tongue, fades fast into a delicious spicy, woody note. Fruits, thick and sticky, like a treacle tart. 

Finish: Pleasantly long toasted oak. Very woody here. Peanuts. More of that sticky fruit. Bitters. 

Rating: 85/100

I was very happy with this bottle. It's not just a gimmick but a fine expression in its own right. The extra 2 years of aging makes it much less aggressive on the nose than the 12 year and the rich oak notes blend perfectly with the fruity Glenfiddich malt.  



Just in case you forgot:

use for hot toddy