Hello, /r/scotch. In celebration of my recent moderator assignment, I decided to review the oldest whisky I currently have open, the Glenlivet Archive 21 Year. There?s surprisingly little information available about this whisky from simple Google searches, but I do know that a variety of casks are used in the maturation of this one and it is released in small numbered batches that slightly vary. I have batch 0711H which I have to assume is a July 2011 bottling (or is it November 2007?), but I couldn?t confirm that. The minimum age is 21 years, but whisky won?t be used in the creation of this malt until it is properly ?matured,? meaning it could be significantly older than 21 years if they feel it?s right for that batch. One batch was reported to have 40 year old whisky in it, but I highly doubt that?s the norm. In any case?

The Glenlivet Archive 21 Year ? 43% alcohol by volume ? 700 ml

Like the Balvenie Portwood and the Macallan Fine Oak 21 Year, this is yet another 21 year old whisky bottled at 43% ABV. For the age and the price, you?d think that we?d get at least 46%, but I digress. I don?t think I ever would have bought this at full price, but I got it duty free for ?56.99, which was about $85 USD at the time. The lady at the shop told me that it was the most heavily discounted item in the store at the time so I said, ?Eh, why not?? I?m really glad I bought this, but only at this price point. I don?t think I?d ever spend $140 on this. I don?t have any other ?livets in my regular rotation and I think this is leaps and bounds better than the overrated Nadurra. If you?re looking for a ?fresh? nose and taste common in the Glenlivet range, this one isn?t for you. The age and complexity really show in this whisky. It?s worth picking up if you can find it cheap!

SCORE: 87/100

I can give myself my tartan now, but knighting yourself is a dick move. Which of the other mods wants the dubious honor? :)



I will take on this honor

Mazel Tov, sir. Consider yourself tartaned!



Glenlivet 21 Year Arhchive, 43% ABV, Speyside

Color - dark amber

Nose -  sweet & woody, bright fruits, spices (cinnamon, clove, coriander seed, salt), lemon custard, banana pudding

Taste -  sweet oaky vanilla, blood orange with the noses' spices, buttery caramelized fruits

Finish - vanilla, fruit breads, slight oak

Overall:
This sample was received via a swap on /r/scotchswap with /u/I_Wear_Two_Monocles , cheers sir!

Alright, well my past experiences with Glenlivet (12 & 18) have been pretty standard, and I didn't find them all that exciting.  This 21 Year Archive, however, is the winner of the 2005, 2006, and 2007 International Wine & Spirit Competition, so let's see how it fares.  

Well, this nose is way better than the other Glenlivets, it has a sweet woody, lightly fruity nose, with lots of spices (very similar smelling to a spice rack).  Initial oaky vanilla sweetness on the tongue, fruity and spicy, mellowing to sugary buttery fruits.  The finish is long with that vanilla sweetness sticking around, more malts and fruits, with a slight oak bitterness.  All in all, this is way better than either the 12 or the 18 Glenlivet. I'm very surprised with this one!

91/100



Definitely a lot better than the frankly subpar (imho) Glenlivet 18. 

I found this one to be nicely buttery as well. 



I tried the 18 at a bar as well, and I found it enjoyable. However, after trying the 21, the 16 Nadurra, and the 12, the 18 seems like a bit of an afterthought. It has the same mouthfeel and vanilla/butterscotch notes as the 12, but at over double the price. Nadurra is similar, but with a more potent cask strength burn. The 21 really stands out. It's just delicious.

Really glad you enjoyed it.



I need some sample bottles for a trade. So I'm forced to review. Picked some good ones, I guess? Both of these samples are from two different people. i dunno. I need to dig through my trades and see where they came from. I should really start requesting people put their names on samples. I seriously have like a two year backlog. I have mystery samples I feel like I will never know the answer to. #firstworldproblems.

Glenlivet 21 Archive, 43%, sample from I dont remember /u/thatguy142 .
NOSE: fruit gum, honey, florals, ash, imitation orange candies
PALATE: fruit gum, thin honey, lemon grass
FINISH: short, peppery, light brine notes
FINAL THOUGHTS:   Exactly what you expected. Perfectly inoffensive.
SCORE:80 /100  

Benromach Portwood, 45%, sample from yellow paper label /u/Rhetoriclese
NOSE: cherries, dark chocolate, pine forest, candied fruits
PALATE: candied fruits, syrup, tart cherries
FINISH: peppers, chocolate, syrup, bitterness
FINAL THOUGHTS:   Could use a little more punch. The  port only really shines in the finish. It?s a little muddled on the palate.
SCORE: 82/100

There ya go. Did you send me a sample with a thin yellow label or a white label with blue ink? Lemme know. Save me the looking. Thanks.



sample from I dont remember.

I'd recognize that horrid handwriting any day.



To throw me forward into the 70+ club, a comparison of two older malts from one of the most popular distilleries in Scotland.

I received a very generous gift from my aunt in the form of Glenlivet 18 last Christmas. I also discovered a friend of mine had a bottle of Glenlivet 21 he was waiting to open, so I headed over, swapped him a dram of my finest, and went away with a sample of the 21. On with the show!

Glenlivet 18. Speyside single malt, aged a minimum of 18 years in a combination of first-fill American oak and second-fill European oak casks, and bottled at 43% ABV. Local bottle price: $115 for 700mL.

Nose: A predictable - but positive - development of the Glenlivet profile. Cocoa powder and latte bringing a subtle, creamy sweetness, combined with a vibrancy of crisp pear and grapefruit. Spicy dried apricot and white pepper resting on top. Quite tannic, hints of clean wood smoke.

Palate: Body on the lighter side of medium. Flavour profile dominated by soft citrus and cherries, with touches of liquorice and oak. Like a more refined 12, with the same meek presentation, but with a slight increase in complexity.

Finish: Dry and short. Continuation of the oak and liquorice, with some of the gentle smokiness returning. Some light caramel and more soft citrus there for a second, but they quickly fall away to leave the oak standing on its own.

You can normally find this on special for less than $100, which is pretty reasonable for an 18 year old single malt. Like the 12, it's not bursting with flavour, but it's very drinkable and accessible to any experience level. 

81/100

Glenlivet Archive 21 (Batch #52304). Speyside single malt, aged a minimum of 21 years and bottled at 43% ABV. Local bottle price: $225 for 700mL.

Nose: Wildly different to the 18. The citrus has been pushed aside in favour of a thick sherried character, revealing milk chocolate, stronger coffee bean bitterness, and more smoke (more earthy than the cleaner, light smoke in the 18). Fascinating Cognac-like floral notes coming through, as well as a sweet aromatic pipe tobacco element. 

Palate: More sherry influence. Citrus fruits replaced instead by blueberries, strawberries, even some summer fruits like banana and mango. A subtle dark earthiness and damp wood. Unfortunately still somewhat thin-bodied and muted at such a low proofage.

Finish: Also quite dry, but a little longer and more complex than the 18. Still oaky, yet not as naked as the younger brother. Surrounded by more blueberries from the palate and more creamy sherried sweetness.

Given that the 21 is roughly double the price of the 18, I approached this with a degree of scepticism. How can a mere 3 more years of aging be worth such extreme price inflation? But these two are very different expressions. There's no doubt that the low proofage has hurt these whiskies, but while I wasn't really asking for more in the 18, there was so much going on in the 21 that I couldn't help but wonder what kind of beast is lying under all that water. Regardless, the 21 is not only worth the price jump, but it has also shown me that the chaps at Glenlivet really know how to make a quality whisky when they want to.

89/100



They're rather coy about their maturation (which makes sense, they're not really an artisan brand). I couldn't find much about the 21 on either the Glenlivet website nor the online stores I normally buy from, who usually love to put that kind of stuff in their descriptions.

I'd wager there is a much higher ratio of sherry casks in the 21 than in the 18.



I'd wager there is a much higher ratio of sherry casks in the 21 than in the 18.

from your descriptions I was thinking that as well.  I'd love to read about (or sample) a same cask style maturation comparison.  To get a sort of base comparison of how the aging effects the spirit in the later years.

Great view.  Thanks



Yeah that could be an interesting experiment. I wouldn't expect much myself though; the 18 is already getting quite dry and woody, so I doubt an extension of the same maturation style would improve it in any way.

I would love to try the reverse and sample same kind of casks used for the 21 at 18 though. Glenfarclas is one that springs to mind that uses a lot of sherry casks, and is markedly better in the mid-late teens than at 21. I wonder if the same would be the case with Glenlivet.



Nice reviews! That 21 YA is the star of the Glenlivet family.

Tartan upgraded!



43% ABV

Batch No. 0111G

Nose: The nose is sweet and scattered with wisps of prairie grass and freshly cut straw.  I'm greeted with moderate sherry scents, splashes of chocolate, raisins and orange peel.  Delving deeper into the nose we find just a faint floral essence that also gives the impression of freshly cut flowers.  The nose is still pleasantly spry and somewhat lively for a whisky of this age.

Taste:  A slow, mild arrival.  It seems to take a bit to make an impact on your palate.  Once there, things remain sweet and savory, with notes of glazed cherries and Christmas cake.    Hints of malt and cocoa.  It's an all sherry show from start to finish.  I didn't pick up on many wood notes from the 21 years in cask, which for some may be good or bad, depending on your preference.

Finish: Interestingly, most of the action takes place here in the finish.  Not many new flavor profiles join the party here, save for a minute amount of oak.  Everything seems to amplify into a more pronounced sherry finish.  More dried sweet fruits and dark chocolate, mixed with orange zest.

Not an overly complex whisky,  but it is of good quality , and I enjoyed the freshness contained in the nose.  The rest of the experience, while enjoyable, was somewhat understated and dull.  Those looking for a good quality, easily drinkable dram will no doubt enjoy this, those looking for more of a challenging whisky will be better served looking elsewhere.

88/100



The liquid inside of this bottle is a mix of various casks in the Glenlivet warehouse that range anywhere from 21 to 40 years old. These casks can include ex-bourbon, sherry (obvious from the color and the flavor), first and second fill American and European Oak, French Limousin Oak and whatever else they've got tucked away.

Batch: 0711H

ABV: 43%

Price: $160

Eye: 
Caramel with hints of red     

Nose:
A warm tropical fruit accompanied by caramel, strawberries, oak and sherry lift effortlessly out of the glass and bring with them subtle notes of malt and cocoa that reminds me of malted milk balls like Whoppers. A bit of melon and a sweet syrupy quality that reminds of Tiger's Blood sno-cones. Baking spices and hints of sweet tobacco jump in and out adding a savory and earthy dimension to an already complex aroma.

Taste:
There is an immediate rush of flavor that makes me think of raspberry sorbet, but it's brief and quickly replaced by cherry heavy dark fruit, wood, salted caramel and sherry. Hanging out underneath are notes of sweet malt, iodine, mint and a delicate touch of smoky char all sitting on a carpet of spice.

Balance, Body & Feel:
Expertly balanced with a rich full body and a velvety almost oily feel. This whisky was made for sipping.

Finish:
Long, rich and filled with wood, spice, sherry, a meaty dark fruit and complex dessert notes like caramel and sweet cream.

Score:
95/100

Overall:
It's an absolute pleasure. The warm and velvety, bordering on oily, texture and deep rich flavors create a robust and attention grabbing flavor profile. The complex nose filled with sweet aromas punctuated by savory spikes make this as much a pleasure to sniff as it is to drink; a perfect companion for the complex spice notes and earthy undertones that ride beneath the intensely flavorful palate. To put it into 6 words: It's one hell of a dram.

@review_bot



/u/TheWhiskeyJug's  reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Nice review. 

Your $160 price is pretty close to what I tend to see, but one local store has a bunch of these for $88. Never had a chance to try this one. Maybe I should pull the trigger...?



Gearing up for my [birthday bottle[(http://i.imgur.com/7VP1say.jpg) in two days; it seems only fitting that I review this scotch as a lead in. Too bad I don't have a bottle of the 25 on hand for tomorrow, but tomorrow's schedule is such that I'd not have time for a review anyway. This bottle came to me courtesy of /u/wmarsh1301.

Price: $149.99 locally

Nose: Hints of Speyside apples beneath a thick layer of oak. These are not crisp apples - they've been stewed. There's something bright about it too: cinnamon candy, a touch of vanilla, a hint of leathery smoke. A few field scents: cut ripe grain backed by a bit of an earthy smell.

Mouthfeel: Really nice smooth (graceful) and inoffensive entry on this

Taste: Yellow apples, like drinking a bottle of this apple soda. Tannic oak, moments of vanilla, faint baking spices as in an apple pie - cinnamon, nutmeg, clove, and raw (Turbinado) sugar. Some later hints of darker fruits (as in sherry), but very few. 

Finish: Toasted (smoked) apple taste turns sweet then slightly sour on the aftertaste with a touch of cinnamon on the short but medium intensity alcohol burn.

I've got to say that The Glenlivet ages very well. Going in, I was a little bit fearful of something overly oaky, but this is the scotch equivalent of drinking apple pie. Apple pie that was cooked over an open fire, in a metal pot, like in the old days. 

So yeah, I am really looking forward to seeing if the 33 year old is up to this standard.

Score: 95/100

I stepped back a second at the end to compare the last sip of this with a sip of the 15 French Oak. They differ in the way that apples (21) and grapes (15) differ. The 21 is sweeter too.

Would I buy it again? I can see the value, but at the same time there are so many other things that could be had for $150. Let's just say that those of you who got samples of this from me already should count yourselves lucky: future prospective swappers may find me more reluctant.



This is my 2nd favorite of their standard offerings, a really great whisky. I was also surprised at how much of the fruity aromas it had kept with age and how well they blended into the woody notes.

However my favorite is their 15 yo, and given the price difference between the two I'll always go with the 15.  



Thanks for the review! Since you like it quite a bit, I need to remind you that the 21 Archive is being discontinued (at least in Europe!). It used to be ~100?. The remaining stock is sold for 170? right now. Dark times ahead for the fans of this malt it seems.

Together with the 12yo and the 16 Nadura being phased out as well, I see Glenlivet take a huge hit in reputation.



I know not everyone tracks their combined number of whisk(e)y reviews, but I do and this is #60 and although it doesn't mean new tartan, hitting 60 total reviews is pretty cool. I'm cracking another special sample from /u/thatguy142 that I've had on my list to try for some time now: Glenlivet 21 Archive. /u/thatguy142 has said that Glenlivet 16 Nadurra and 21 Archive are the only two Glenlivet OBs that are worth getting, and I agree that the Nadurra is the only one from them that I've really liked so far. Let's see if I agree that this one is worth the price tag too!

Glenlivet 21 Archive

Strength: 43%

Color: Light golden brown. 

Nose: Floral with summer fruits. Peaches and lemonade. Key lime pie. 

Palate: Apples and more fruit pastries. The malt backbone is there but not overly prominent. I'm surprised at how young and vibrant it is up front, but the age becomes more apparent as the palate evolves. 

Finish: Slowly the oak comes out, with leather and tobacco. 

Summary: I've heard you should let a sip of whisky linger in your mouth for the number of seconds equal to its age statement. In this case, that makes a lot of sense since it really takes it's time to reveal its complexities. One casually sipping on this too quickly might write it off as being a more expensive AnCnoc 12, but here the aging manages to add some layers to the spirit without taking away it's summery fruit flavors. 

/u/thatguy142 hit it right on the money. The 21 Archive and 16 Nadurra both have a similar profile and do something interesting with the Glenlivet profile. While I can't recommend buying a bottle of the standard 12, 15, and 18, these two scotches would make worthy additions to any collection. I'm curious to try Glenfiddich 21 to see if it is as strong as this one. 

Score: 90/100 

Scotch Review #39

Whisky Review #60

Related Reviews

Glenlivet 16 Nadurra 90/100



Hi Scotchit! A few weeks ago I received a packet with various samples of delicious amber nectar from u/thatguy142, thanks buddy! One of the little bottles contained this:

The Glenlivet 21 Archive

Speyside, 43%

Batch 0711H.

color: amber

nose: grass, green bananas, hint of oak, orange juice, cinnamon

taste: hint of cola, caramel, oranges, hint of grass, oak, hint of stollen

finish: medium long

Mild, almost shy nose. Steady arrival and a nice, not overly sweet development. Well balanced, but rather tame. Good Speysider with mild sherry influence.

87/100



Just got a bottle of this last week. After some moderate amounts of sampling, it's actually a very smooth sippable scotch with some delightful tastes as in the parent.

If you had a choice of any scotch, what would it be and why?



I mentioned in my review of their Guardians' Chapter that Glenlivet opened this really neat pop-up store to raise brand awareness. I went there with a friend the other day to drink some whisky (the point of the store is to sell bottles, but you can buy tasting portions too and it's a lot cheaper than the local bars, nice setting too), and tried the 21yo and this single cask bottling called 'Pristinus' which produced 609 bottles off a refill sherry butt. 

Glenlivet 21

Aged 21 years, 43% ABV, Coloured and Chill filtered

Nose: Varnished wood. Candy apple. Cinnamon rolls. Raisins. 

Palate: Bitter wood. Woodspice. Maple. Christmas pudding. 

Finish: Short. Woody. Honey. Cinnamon. 

Rating: Well aged meh.

Glenlivet Pristinus

Aged 15 years, 58.4% ABV, Matured in a refill sherry butt, NCA, NCF, SC

Nose: Glue. Coconut. Green Apple. Honey. Macadamia. Toasty oak. Bit of sherry match head notes. 

Palate: Buttered toast. Woodspice. Mango peel. Rose water. 

Finish: Medium. Woodspice. Lemon drops. Hard cider. 

Rating: It's good, but not 300 EUR good.

I quite enjoyed both expressions, even if the 21 was quite dull, it was a nice sipper. The Pristinus was a lot better, fuller mouthfeel, very subtle sherry influence. Neither worth the price asked for a bottle though.



Wow.  My experience through three complete bottles of Glenlivet Archive 21 is completely different than yours.  It's one of my favorite whiskies, period.  

It's funny how tastes are sooooo different from one person to the next.  I don't think my tasting notes have a match to anything in yours!  lol 



That's all the fun, very personal, and why people like Jim Murray suck.

Can you link to your review? Curious now.



and why people like Jim Murray suck.

Yep.  

Here is the link to my review.  I think the raisin note is the only thing we had in common!



Why age a whisky for 21 years just to chill filter it?  Sigh.

Also, do they know you there by name yet? :)