Review #51: Glen Garioch 12

ABV: 48%

Some info: This is one of the 3 Scottish distilleries Suntory owns. The other 2 being Bowmore and Auchentoshan if I'm right. How you pronounce this distillery's name is different. According to Ralfy, Glen Garioch is pronounced as Glen Geery.

Color: brownish amber

Nose: hazelnut, lemons, apples, pears, a little spice, cereals, salty, cinnamon

The nose reminds me of the nose of Old Pulteney 21. That sort of nutty and fruity sweet yet saltly profile. Despite being a Highland the nose is more like a Lowland. Very lively nose. Lovely.

Taste: sweet, toffee nut, cereals, apples, pears, plums, salty caramel, spicy, lemons, a small hint of chocolate, cinnamon, ginger

Like the nose, the taste reminds me of the Old Pulteney 21. Think of the Toffee Nut Frapp mixed with the Salty Caramel Frapp of Starbucks to get an idea of the sweet yet salty. Lovely.

Finish: nutty, sweet and spicy. medium length.

Conclusion: A very interesting whisky. I'd love to get my hands on other offerings of this distillery. This whisky reminds me of the Old Pulteney 21 except the finish is weaker. I'd rather get 4 of these than 1 Old Pulteney 21 bottle though.

Score: 87



The scene: I bought a bottle of this for a friend and fellow whisky drinker while on a trip and he opened it up when I visited last night. Drank a glass before dinner along with some olives and salami. He also brought out some Lagavulin 16 and Glenfarclas 105 after dinner, but by that point we had also polished off a couple of bottles of wine and I was in no state to write further notes. 

Highlands, 48%, $30, matured in a mix of bourbon and sherry casks. Non-chillfiltered but it doesn?t say natural color so it?s likely colored. Tasted neat from a tumbler. 

Nose: A bit sharp at first but that clears with a little rest. Butterscotch pudding, toffee, slightly floral with subtle spice and a little yeast. 

Palate: Nice mix of toffee with sherry flavor coming with date paste, fruitcake, some cinnamon and cloves. A little walnut. Pleasant mouthfeel. Drinks quite easily at full strength and I never added water. 

Finish: Medium. Malt and oak are the prominent flavors. Not much sherry character left. The finish is a little disappointing.

Conclusion: It's nice but there isn't much special going on. Pretty good flavor though the finish falls off a little. I appreciate that it?s not chill-filtered. Nothing much to complain about but doesn't stand out particularly. It ends up being a little too middle of the road for me. 

Buy a bottle? At the price I paid for it, absolutely. Would make a great everyday dram. However, back in the US it will be more like $65 and then it ceases being a great value. Reminds me of Highland Park 12 but without the peat influence and the higher ABV. But I?m not sure it?s worth the extra cost. Something I might grab if it were on sale. 

82/100



Nice review!

Sounds like an awesome $30 bottle. Sad I'll likely never see it for that here in the states. 



Here is the obligatory element of a Glen Garioch review, in which I mention that it?s apparently pronounced ?Glen Gear-y.?

Moving on, then.

Glen Garioch 12 Year Old Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 12 Years Old; Highland; a mix of bourbon and sherry casks; Non chill-filtered; 48% ABV; 750mL; runs about $48 Cdn. in the province of Alberta.

Appearance: Deep gold, with reddish hints, approaching the shade of a lighter sherry. Respectable legs. Love the bottle and the branding, too, for what little it?s worth (though they certainly go overboard with mentions of when the distillery was established).

Nose: Big floral note initially?significant waves of heather. Lavender? Dandelions? Beneath that, pears in syrup. A bit spicy at 48% ABV. Honey. A real sense of the barley character. Am I getting faint sulphur? Hmm. Uh-oh (maybe I'm imagining it? It doesn't seem to affect proceedings much). Over time, more fresh fruits (apples, pears). A hint of red berries. Toasted oak. Some vanilla. A kind of earthiness. Faint brown sugar? No denying there?s a lot going on here, and it?s nice (especially when the fruit and the floral come together when your nose is at just the right point).

Taste: A bit of heat, and a significant barley character, but the big floral heather comes through. Freshly squeezed orange juice? Spicy pepper. Tangy, almost? Lightly vinous. Decent body. Toasted wood. Vanilla. Only the suggestion of fruits. An interesting cr?me br?l?e character when you add some water and let it linger on your tongue. Also some nuttiness. But keeps coming back around to the floral side of things. It?s reminiscent of a blooming spring garden, almost? Less of a sherry influence than I would have expected.

Finish: Lingering warmth. Faint wood-smoke. A bit of bitterness. Vanilla. Hints of apples and pears. Dry. Heather all over.

Final Thoughts: Despite the fact that they?re very different sorts of whiskies and it's not really a fair comparison, it?s hard to drink the Glen Garioch 12 without thinking of its NAS statement younger brother (the Founder's Reserve), because I happen to be of the opinion that the younger brother is, in this case, the superior whisky. And at $4-5 less than the 12, and with the additional observation that there are just so many other young-ish (10-12 year), good, sherried whiskies out there, I?d be hard-pressed to justify purchasing another bottle of this stuff. It?s good (quite well made), yes, and it has a number of things to recommend it?non chill-filtered, higher ABV, the price?and yet for those reasons stated above, I still feel a bit ambivalent about it.

Score: 84



Yeah, I really like the Founder's Reserve (it's just so straightforward, and there's a nice almost bourbon-y character to it that makes it great for summer sipping for me). 

I actually went to the liquor store originally planning on grabbing another bottle of the Founder's Reserve--they were out of it, but had this for (I think) $3 more at the time, so I took the chance. I'm not displeased with the purchase, but I'll definitely be going back to the Founder's Reserve once this one's done.



REVIEW #153: Glen Garioch 1999 (bottled 2013) Batch 30 - 56.3% abv

Nose:  Dark, thick, heavy, toffee, coffee grounds, hazelnuts, fruitcake, leather, musty basement, damp oak, floral, tulips, roses, honey, honeysuckle, banana, toasted coconut, raisins, prunes, dried apricots, burnt sugar, clove, nutmeg, cinnamon

Taste: Oily, thick, mouth coating, sweet, buttery, toffee, touch of salt, honey, chocolate, raisins, with water it gets thicker, oilier, sweeter, melted butter, white sugar, vanilla custard, fruit cake, strawberries or raspberries, 

Finish: Crushed red pepper, honey, raisins, ginger, gingerbread cookie, long-lasting, sweet, coats the insides of the cheeks, goes on and on.  Green tea.

Score: 89/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: This is really good.  Intense, strong, heavy, dark, deep, complex, interesting, full flavored, long-lasting, high abv, good value.  Yum.



Review #96

Hello everyone, today I?ve got a review of a great single malt that has little representation on our subreddit. You can view my other Glen Garioch review here

Glen Garioch 12, Highlands, 48% NCF

Nose: Caramel apple pop deceptively? astonishingly so. Heather, coriander, dry? vegetal.

Palate: Juicy spiced stewed apples, heavy hitting floral linens, hints of caramel and vanilla.

Finish: Drying, slightly hot. Sharp floral notes turn sweet, dusty, toasty oak.

88/100

A bit better than the Founder?s Reserve. Doesn?t feel as well rounded but has very distinct and interesting flavor profiles that I thoroughly enjoy. 



48% ABV

Nose: Dried fruit, particularly prunes with raisins and spice.  Light fudge and caramel, and a bit of salt.  Diving deeper into the nose, I got a good jolt of new make spirit.  Somewhat buttery and syrupy, all with a mild antiseptic note.  Lastly, a smack of cola resides within.  Not a very complex nose, but interesting nonetheless.

Taste: Savory dried fruits in the arrival, with bitter-sweet salt and vanilla. The sherry casks and bourbon casks seem to balance well together, with neither showing a tendency to dominate the experience.  Cooked apples and pears, all mixed with salt toffee and butterscotch. The addition of water softens the heat and helps bring out the whisky's sweeter side.

Finish: A finish consisting of wood tannins and leather.  The salt sticks it out until the end.  A bit of heat in the finish which detracts from the quality of the finish slightly.  The bourbon casks seem to have the edge in terms of impact here too.  A dash of pepper to complete the endeavor.

A good mix of sweet and savory, perhaps in need of slightly better casks and/or new make spirit.  Extra marks for making a non chill filtered whisky at a relatively low price and 48% ABV as well.

86/100



I enjoyed this one, but certainly preferred the Founder's Reserve. 

it's younger, but i found it to be a higher quality and more enjoyable dram than the 12 year. 

give it a try if you can find it!



Thanks for the sample /u/wuhantang.

Appearance: Amber +0

Nose: Spicy banana and clove, pears, quite fruity, marmalade.

Taste: Sweet white fruits, clove and ginger, malty honey, hint of red stone fruit.

Finish: Tingling spicy sweetness and a hint of damp leather or slightly musty wood. Medium length.

Note: This is a nice dram. Nicely balanced and quite estery, I really enjoyed the interplay between the spiciness and the sweet fruits. I really think this distillery is underrated, as I have enjoyed everything I've had from them so far.

Score: 86/100

Scores to Date: Min:66.0, Max:98.0, Avg:85.9, SD:5.0 - Total Reviews: 112



estery

I had some of this at a friend's place and couldn't find the right word to describe it, thank you. 

Nice review. This is a solid dram, particularly when you consider that it comes from the same house as Auchentoshan and Bowmore.



Colour: Dark honey.

Nose: Honey, pears, apples, flowers, wood, sour green grapes, brown sugar, bourbon.

Palate: Cinnamon, brown sugar, honey, dark apples, pears, wood, a slight sherry influence, grain, bread, banana cream liquer, brown rice.

Finish: Sherry, raisins, wood, spice cake.

I loved the Glen Garioch Founder's Reserve when I first got a bottle.  I must admit, my second bottle doesn't score quite so high.  The 12 year old shares a lot of similarities; it's woodier, and not as bright and young.  The sherry influence comes through very subtly.  The longer I sit with a dram of this, the more I like it.  Incredibly pleasant.

As an aside, I've heard that McClelland's Highland is a young Glen Garioch.  Given how much I enjoy the FR and 12, I'm tempted to try this, you know, for science...

Non-Chill Filtered and generously bottled at 48%.  I do suspect artificial colouring.  Still, damn solid.  I'm really enjoying offerings from this distillery.  They have some truly solid whiskies that are neither peated nor heavily sherried.

90/100

Other Glen Garioch Reviews for reference:

Glen Garioch Founder's Reserve - 90/100



Thanks to /u/Seaspecial for the sample!  My first Glen Garioch.  Aged for 12 years in a mix of ex-bourbon and sherry casks, and bottled at 48% ABV.  Non chill filtered.

?

Nose:  Lemon custard.  Sea salt.  Raspberry fruit leather and spice.

Palate:  Medium creamy mouthfeel.  Very creamy.  Dried fruit, freshly tanned leather, and oak.

Finish:  Medium short finish.  Lots of oak, heather, and honey

Score: 86/100

?

This is really quite good.  Nothing amazing about it but nothing off putting either.  I enjoy how fruity it is on the nose and then how leathery and old it seems on the palate.  Its just a very well rounded whisky.  I especially like the creamy mouthfeel.



got together with a buddy tonight who I recently found out is a huge scotch fan. He picked up a ton of bottles out West (where freedom reigns and liquor taxation isn't insane) and has some incredible bottles in his collection. One of the ones he shared was the Glen Garioch 12 yr, as he'd found out I really enjoyed their Founder's Reserve recently. So as he tried that dram, I tried a glass of this beauty.  I only took mental notes while drinking it so this will be less detailed than most of my reviews!

Appearance:  rather pale, not at all like the founder's reserve.

Nose: fruity. Floral heather, some citrus, spicy

Taste: definitely tastes older than the NAS Founder's Reserve. Woody and floral, burnt sugar. An almost musty taste.  

Finish: bit of fruit and flowers. Oaky. 

Rating: 86/100

very tasty, though I do prefer the Founder's Reserve (which since my review has gone up to $60 from $55 :( ). Really enjoyed the comparison as I haven't had much opportunity to do 'verticals' yet!  I'll post the second one he brought tonight a bit later? probably for my #30 Tartan, as it's a pretty special one!

editing to add review #25 of Glen Garioch Founder's Reserve for vertical comparison



And yes the wonderful selection and pricing in the West aka Calgary. For reference this was my easter trip. http://i.imgur.com/AgcLsNG.jpg

Edit: will figure out the picture link later. Need to leave for work. Maybe fixed...



wow, nice haul!

definitely hoping to make a run to Kensington when i'm out there in July.



I'd definitely recommend going to Bin 905 and talking with Alex. He's the one that set all of that up for me including special ordering in a few bottles. The service I received there as well as the on shelf selection, imo, much better than Kensington. 

P.S. It wasn't all for me, just the Ardbegs, the Octomore and Port Charlotte. The others were for some scotch buddies. 