2 more whiskies I tasted blind. It's hard, but a great learning experience!

Color: Very light, white wine

Nose: Very grassy at first, some manure too?Horses stables? Some acidity too, balsamic vinegar. Some tropical fruits are jumping in and out, but remain in the background. Pistachio?s and oregano. Quite a funky nose.

Palate: Oak at first, then some vanilla and herbal notes. A bit of grass comes in but then everything is swept away by a wave of peppers.

Finish: The pepper remains throughout the finish, but is less intense. Some oak in there as well, and a hint of lemon curd. Quite a drying mouthfeel too.

This one is too funky for me. It doesn?t taste like it?s 19 years old, nor does it taste like one would expect from a sherry cask. An interesting experience though.

78/100

Reveal: Glenlivet 1996/2015 van Wees

Color: Tawny

Nose: Nutty, very much so, hazelnuts and walnuts. Quite a bit of cacao too. A bit of sulphur comes through, as does eucalyptus. Otherwise it?s a fairly closed nose. After letting it sit for a while, some cinnamon starts to pop up, slight hints of strawberry and some raisins. Nuts are still dominant though.

Palate: Opens up a bit here, berries and raisins. Very velvety mouthfeel. Some nuts and oak again. This goes down a bit too smoothly, it could use a bit more punch.

Finish: Nuts, yet again, and slightly peppery. A nice balance between sweet and bitter here, and it?s a ridiculously long finish.

This isn?t the most complex sherried whisky in the world, but it?s extraordinary smooth. Because of that, it does lack somewhat in complexity.

82/100

Reveal: Glengoyne 18

I blog at http://whiskyinformer.com



Review #31 Glengoyne 18 yr old

?

50 ml bottle, purchased at Slefridges, London

?

43% ABV

?

Color: Amber +1

?

Neat

Nose: Sherry; plums; rum-soaked raisins; chocolate covered cherries.

Palate: Thin, slightly oily; mild bitterness; sherry; dark raisins; becomes more bitter midpalate.

Finish: Short; less bitterness, but it lingers; sherry and oak.

?

With water (a few drops) 

Nose: Plum; sherry, but more muted; burnt caramel.

Palate: Thin; bitter; overstewed plum.

Finish: Hot; mildly bitter.

?

Overall impression: The palate doesn't deliver on the promise made by the nose one this one. Not a bad dram, but not my favorite Glengoyne, either. Does not benefit from the addition of water.

?

72/100



I was a Glengoyne tasting on Friday night which paired each whisky with a different cheese. I'm usually a little sceptical about paring whisky with food but I've raided the fridge enough times either during or after a dramming session to know that cheese can work well. These are all Scottish cheeses & one of the cheddars is made from the milk of cows that were fed on draff from a Campbeltown distillery. Draff is the leftover barley after it has been steeped in hot water to extract its sugar - it remains high in fibre & protein and is sold to farmers as feed for livestock.

?

Glengoyne 12yo, 43% (with Brie)

Nose: Quite a light nose with some caramel, cereal & fresh fruit. Red apple.    

Palate: Caramel, some fresh fruit, honey, vanilla.     

Finish: a little short, more caramel & a little oak. A little sherry cask influence some out    

Comments: Pretty flawless whisky but it's very light and a little too simple. Works well enough with Brie.    

81/100

?

Glengoyne 15yo, 43% (with Goats cheese)

Nose: A mile away from the 12yo, quite rich with some pronounced sherry influence. Caramel again but it's got dates, clove & black pepper to go along with it. Earthy & nutty too. Lemon citrus.

Palate: Spicy sherried arrival, cinnamon & black pepper, orange, walnuts.    

Finish: long, dark chocolate & clove   

Comments: Really enjoyed this one, it's a huge whisky for only being 43%. The goats cheese works very well too, it brings out a lovely almond note.    

88/100

?

Glengoyne 18yo, 43% (with mild Cheddar from cows fed on draff)

Nose: PX sherry is pretty dominant. Similar to the 15yo but without the citrus and with PX sherry notes turned up to 11. 

Palate: Dates, prunes, dark chocolate, clove & oak.      

Finish: long, spicy & drying.    

Comments: A little disappointing after the 15yo though I'm sure sherry heads would love this. It's still a good whisky but the blanket of PX sherry drowns out some of the more interesting notes from the 15yo. Cheese pairing didn't really work either but it's a nice idea.    

85/100

?

Glengoyne 'Cask Strength - Batch 3', 58.2% (with strong mature Cheddar)

Nose: Spirit-led & obviously youngish but I wouldn't describe it as 'hot'. Toffee, barley sugar, croissants & some nuts.    

Palate: Marzipan & earthy arrival, milky coffee & caramel, a little spiced pear & some other fresh red fruit notes. Quite a fat mouth feel.     

Finish: Long, oily & spicy   

Comments: An excellent whisky & a great example of a spirit led cask strengther from ex-sherry casks. The strong cheddar works well with this too.   

88/100

?

Glengoyne 'The Teapot Dram - Batch 4', 58.7%    

We didn't taste this on the night but it's as good a place as any to add my tasting notes.           

Nose: Lovely dry & nutty olorosso nose. Black treacle, walnuts, black pepper, liquorice. Gets a little sweeter with water with some dates & rum soaked raisings coming out.   

Palate: Spicy full sherry arrival. Dates, raisins, prunes. Spicy too with clove & green pepper. Chestnut & hazelnut.     

Finish: Long & peppery. Shortbread & chocolate     

Comments: Really good whisky & an absolute sherry bomb. I preferred the CS though as it was a bit more spirit led and less sherry cask dominant.     

86/100

Overall: I love cheese & I love whisky so I had a great night. The 15yo & the CS were the winners for me & are pretty good value too at ?40-50 each.



ugh was there this summer - very generous, paid for the ?18 sampler (15y, 18y, 21y) and they gave me a bunch of extras including their cask strength and teapot dram, on top of a Glencairn glass! Definitely worth the trip.

Edit: The more I read over this, the more it sounds like I've been paid to write this...which I was not!



Whiskey Network Review #20  r/Scotch Review #14

Info: Like many things you can't find this in my state and I live in a state where you are not allowed to have spirits shipped to you, luckily there are a few places that either don't know this or don?t care, so I picked this up along with a few other things from master of malt, hence the 70cl bottle. I have had this sitting in the cellar since last fall and I sort of forgot about it until just recently.

Price:  $78 for 70cl

Appearance: Deep gold, natural color

Nose: Honey, fresh baked pastries, stone fruit, hay, orange blossom, banana laffy taffy, raisin, apple

Taste: Honey, sherry, vanilla, pineapple, peach, banana, those butter cookies that when your done you put sewing supplies in the tin, malty, spice (nutmeg, caraway, a little fennel), milk chocolate

Finish: Sweet and fruity

Conclusion: Very enjoyable, while it has a pretty light body to it, the flavors are all there and it doesn?t taste like it's been too watered down although I would gladly pay more for a bump in abv. Looks like it could be chill filtered slightly, but the mouth feel is quite oily so I am guessing it probably isn't. I certainly wouldn?t want to drink this if I were going to enjoy a cigar or some appetizers it could easily be overpowered, but would make a great desert dram after a meal.

Rating: A

A+:  Perfection, how do I replace my blood with this! (95-100/100)

A: Damn good, would love to always keep a bottle of this laying around at all times if I could afford to. (90-95/100)

B: I like it, would buy the occasional bottle, or order the occasional glass, but there are others I prefer more. (80-89/100)

C: Unremarkable but drinkable, right in the middle of the bell curve. (70-79/100)

D: Mixer, I don?t want to drink it straight up. (60-69/100)

F: Nope, nope, nope (59-0/100)



I am quite partial to the 'Goynes and think your review captures this expression nicely.

I have had bottles of this and the 21, and enjoy them both a lot. As you say, this is quite a light dram, but I have being enjoying this style as well as the very rich sherry bombs which can sometimes be a bit too heady for a daily dram.



Yeah, the 21yo is a great dram IMO - everything you like about the 18 on steroids! Much richer, but still balanced. Worth the price I think; although not on a level with my whisky collection's current top sherry-bomb it is a fair bit cheaper and more readily available (ie I can buy it at my local bottle-oh here in Aus whereas I had to travel to London for the '93 Glendro) I will definitely pick myself up another bottle when I need another great sherry bomb expression for the cabinet.

The CS is also excellent value, it's a classic 'Goyne expression (a lot like the 15yo, which is another good bottle that definitely represents value for money), but with that CS punch. Not as rich as an A'bunadh or Glenfarclas 105, but certainly worth picking up.



Yeah, I have tried a dram in a bar, but am yet to buy a bottle.

Definitely a special dram that one!



I have here a trio of drams from the distillery that straddles the Highlands and the Lowlands. Natural color all. And how about the classy presentation on this mini set?

Glengoyne 10, 40% ABV

Nose: Cinnamon, cedar, a bit of that dreaded butyric acid that I don't mind much but some people can't stand.

Taste: Lemon cake, glazed doughnut, honey. 

Finish: Buttery, a little salty, short.

This is markedly better than, say, the 40% ABV Glenfarclas 10. It's not the most exciting dram in the world but there are no off notes and even the mouthfeel is pretty decent and not watery. 81/100

Glengoyne 15, 43% ABV

Nose: Caramel, molasses, sherry, baked goods.

Taste: A little sharp, almondy on arrival, but a really nice deep note comes in on development that's kind of like cherry coke but not artificial and saccharine. Flows nicely into a mature oaky flavor and continues seamlessly into the finish.

Finish: Oak, surprisingly long aftertaste, richly rounded sherry.

"Quaffable" is a word that comes to mind. The arrival is slightly flawed (depending on your tastes) but the very nice development and finish go a long way toward making up for it. 86/100

Glengoyne 18, 43% ABV

Nose: Now we're really talking. Unmistakeably sherry matured. A bit of a mustard note. Sesame. Gunpowder.

Taste: Rich, juicy, oaky, bittersweet. Reminds me a good deal of Highland Park 18 which I consider high praise. Delicious, chocolatey, cherry cordial.

Finish: Semi-sweet chocolate morsels, gourmet coffee with a touch of sugar, medium length.

A fine after-dinner drink, this. Similar to HP18 and $30 cheaper, I recommend this almost unreservedly, the one reservation being of course that it ought to be bottled at higher strength. I'm not asking for CS, but c'mon, toss us 46% at least. Still, very delish and high quality. 91/100

This tasting has opened my eyes. Glengoyne, well done. I keep price out of my scores but bottom line these offer a lot of quality for the money. Even the 10, I mean it's not something I'd put on my wish list, but my local has it for $35, and damn if it's not a better choice than, say Balvenie Doublewood at $56. For that price I just might pick up a bottle to experiment with scotch cocktails. The whole line is well-crafted and represents a lot of value for the money. Consider me a fan.



I prefer the 15 to the 18

Yeah, me too. I did a 12, 15, 18 & CS tasting and the 15 & CS were the best of the bunch for me.



HIGHLAND REGIONS

REVIEW #29: Dalwhinne 15 year - 43% abv 

Nose: Creamy, honey, sweet apples, yellow apples to be specific

Taste: All of the nose, add some nice warmth and some spices

Finish: Lingering, delicious, honey and spices

Score: 88/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Delicious, easy going, not the most complex whisky out there, but well-crafted, tasty, and approachable.  I?d use this to convince someone new to Scotch that not all Scotch tastes like an ash tray.  Great stuff.  I want a bottle.

REVIEW #30: Old Pulteney 12 year - 40% abv 

Nose: Herbs, Toasted Oat Cereal maybe, peanuts, oak, spices 

Taste: Malt, cereal grains, green herbs, more oak, spices in the background

Finish: All those flavors linger for a bit, warmth, not much to say here, pretty straightforward stuff.

Score: 85/100

Buy a full bottle? Perhaps

Closing Thoughts: It?s good.  It?s just? not much to write home about.  I feel bad ranking it lower than some of these other ones, but it?s getting tasted alongside some heavy hitters and in direct juxtaposition it?s not standing out.  I guess I like the heavier more full-flavored whiskies, so these more subtle and straightforward ones are getting docked a few points for not grabbing my attention as much.  Old Pulteney is good whisky.  I?d probably buy a bottle someday, but I?m not gonna rush out for one right away.

REVIEW #31: Dalmore 12 year - 40% abv 

Nose: Dark. Cherries. Dark cocoa powder. 

Taste: Chocolate covered cherries.  Boom! wow.  Black forest cake.  Dark chocolate.  Espresso. 

Finish: All of that lingering with the warmth of a wood burning fireplace.

Score: 87/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Delicious. I love how different all of these whiskies can be.  Gotta collect ?em all!

REVIEW #32: Oban 14 year - 43% abv 

Nose: Rich, smoky, medicinal, sea, seaweed, tarry ropes, cut hay, wood smoke, sweetness

Taste: thick, full, citrus, smooth, sweet, smoke, seaweeod, oak, cereal

Finish: good length, fruity, dry oak

Score: 89/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Fantastic. Wow? I really like this one, too.  Go Highlands!  The combination of sweetness and smoke is well integrated and balanced.  Reminds me of Lagavulin 16 with more sweetness and the dial turned down on the bonfire.

REVIEW #33: Glengoyne 18 year - 43% abv 

Nose: OMG Huge nose!  I probably spent 5 minutes just sniffing this whisky.  Fascinating.  So many aromas all jumbled together. creamy, custard, dried peels, allspice, honey, butterscotch.

Taste: Custard, peels, honey, butterscotch, spices carry over.  Great warmth.

Finish: Lingering flavors stay in the palate for several minutes.  Delicious.

Score: 90/100

Buy a full bottle? YES!

Closing Thoughts: This is one of our favorites so far.  Fantastic whisky.  So much going on.  

REVIEW #34: Edradour 10 year - 43% abv 

Nose: I?ve spent a lot of years trying to figure out what the aromas are in this whisky.  It?s murky and doesn?t reveal its secrets easily.  I spent a couple hours one night watching TV and just sniffing the glass.  Here?s what I?ve found: dark fruits, prunes, raisins, dark spices (I can?t figure out which ones), sugar coated almonds, oak, vanilla, sweetness, yellow cake mix, orange zest, maybe some overripe banana in the back

Taste: Big and powerful right away, murky, rum-like, toasted almonds, sweet, toffee, Werther?s Originals butterscotch candy?, Barley

Finish: The warmth spreads down to your belly but doesn?t hang around for very long.  The flavors, though? Spiced fruitcake, creme brulee, burnt sugar. These flavors stick around for upwards of 5-10 minutes for me.  Mouth-watering.  Makes me want to drink more.  

Score: 93/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: This was my first Scotch ever.  It?s the reason I started drinking alcoholic beverages. The bucketload of memories and good times associated with this whisky make my review completely biased and out of whack.  We?ve tasted a bit of Edradour after each tasting sessions just to see if we still preferred it over all others, and for the most part, we do.  We also believe there to be a very strong familiarity bias involved here, but we weren?t willing to do a double-blind taste test.  Nobody wants to find out that the whisky love of their life is a hag, so we didn?t open that door.  We?re having fun and we like Edradour, a lot.  The good news is that we?ve found a ton of great whiskies out there and will be expanding our collection beyond this single scotch.

REVIEW #35: Edradour 13 year Natural Cask Strength Bourbon Matured - 58% abv 

Nose: I can smell the Edradour spirit behind a wall of vanilla and peaches, orangey citrus and oak

Taste: Much lighter and more mellow than the 10yo.  None of those dark spices or dried fruits I?m used to tasting.  caramel, citrus, grass?

Finish: Lasting heat, all those sweet mellow flavors lingering around for awhile.

Score: 86/100

Buy a full bottle? No

Closing Thoughts: I didn?t care for the bourbon cask.  It feels like the strength and soul of the 10yo is asleep.  Someone wake it up!

REVIEW #36: Edradour 13 year Natural Cask Strength Sherry Matured - 58.4% abv 

Nose: BOOM! It?s awake now.  :) Sweet, red fruit, jammy, sugared almonds, spices, nutty, ginger, orange peel

Taste: Ginger, spices, jam, strong, entire tongue is alive and kicking

Finish: Long lasting, hot and peppery, sweetness lingers.  Delicious.

Score: 95/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: This takes the 10yo and turns the dial up to 11.  Fantastic.  I definitely prefer sherry casks over bourbon, at least with this spirit.  This is our overall winner for the first 36 samples.  What a great way to end the first batch. 

TO BE CONTINUED?



Distilled/Owned by: Glengoyne / Ian Macleod Distillers Ltd

Region: Highland

43% ABV

Mashbill: 100% malted barley

Aged For: 18 years

Cask Type: Refill and first fill sherry casks

Chill Filtered: Yes

Color Added: No

Color: Copper

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn.

Nose: Vanilla, fruits, gentle oak, very sweet and supple

Mouthfeel: Light bodied

Palate/Taste: Ginger, raisin, fig, dry sherry, touch of vanilla, oak, and cinnamon

Finish: Medium warmth with caramel and fruit notes.

Thoughts: Light for such a strongly sherry influenced whisky, but has nice fruity overtones and pleasing palate.

Score: 85/100



Just did a quick SBS in the name of science. 

Both of them have the dried fruits, nuts, baking spices, chocolate and raisins aromas and flavors you expect with a 21+ year old ex-sherry cask malt. 

The Glendronach Parliament 21 has a heavier, oily mouthfeel, is a bit more complex and leans to the dark side on its chocolate notes. 

The Glengoyne 21 has a lighter mouthfeel and is less complex, its chocolate notes lean more to the milk chocolate side, and its raisiny flavors feel more fresh and fruity; it makes me think of a Cadbury bar with raisins. The Glendronach on the other hand has a leathery quality I'm not getting in the Glengoyne.

This makes the Glendronach sound better than the Glengoyne but both are really very good, it comes down to what sort of mood you are in. The Glengoyne has a light fruity quality which is bright and refreshing in the way that younger malts which are very well made can have. Sometimes I'm more in the mood for that rather than for something dark and brooding, in which case the Glengoyne would be the better choice, some days it would the reverse. There aren't too many ex-sherry cask malts which manage to bring in old sherry notes while also having that youthful refreshing quality, this is something Glengoyne specifically is very good at pulling together. 

Cheers



I got mailed a free coupon for one tasting of Glengoyne 21. I drove across the city and deep downtown to the place and it was totally worth it. Its been my favourite bottle since then, though its a tad out of my price range at $250CAD.

10/10, would recommend.



I was waiting to see if somebody else might have an opinion to offer (hopefully better than mine), but apparently not, so my 2 cents:

To me the GG10 drinks light, clean, refreshing, bright, honeyed, and with a touch of astringency coming in at the finish like a little bit of sherry cask influence at play. Aiming for a similar price (or something at least in the same neighborhood) that makes me think of these:

Old Pulteney 12

Clynelish 14

Aberfeldy 12

Glenfiddich 15 Solera

Macallan 12 Double Cask

Glen Moray 12

Glenmorangie Original, and perhaps also the Glenmo Nectar D'Or

all of these share at least some elements of the GG10 flavor profile.

If by "next step up" you are looking for a different flavor profile with something added to it compared with the GG10 (more sherry perhaps?) then let me know what you're looking for and I'll try to make suggestions.

Glengoyne does sell sample packs which you could use to get a peek at the older expressions (15,18); I've also seen the older GG expressions sold in small bottle sizes (20cl or 375ml) on some of the UK based online sites.

Lastly, if you love the GG10 then Irish whiskey is something you might want to explore.

Hope that helps, cheers.



Greetings Scotchit! Despite it being the big 5-oh, I have nothing special for you today. I've got some whiskies lined up for some more special reviews, but I wasn't feeling it today, so I went with these instead.

These are the last of the sample bottles I picked up at the Good Spirits Co. in Glasgow. This time around, it's Glengoyne, another distillery I've never tried. These are the 10 and 18 year olds, both natural colour and bourbon cask matured*. 

I really don't have any expectations for these whiskies, apart from them being standard Highland malts with sour apples and maybe a slight bitterness on the finish. Let's get to it.

Review #49: Glengoyne 10
Highland, 40% ABV, natural colour, 50ml sample

Nose: sour apple, sweet malted barley, oaky vanilla, pears mildly bitter oak

Mainly sourness on the palate in a very standard Highland nose. Sweet and light oakiness also present, but plays second fiddle to the sour fruits.

Taste: creamy mouthfeel, sweet malt, pear and citrus, cream

Creamy on the palate, but dominated by sweet citrus and pears.

Finish: short, mild bitterness, light pound cake sweetness

Short and mildly sweet. Over quickly and uneventfully. 

Summary: A standard Highland malt, which makes it a bit boring. Glengoyne would do well to add a finish to this, as the malt seems malleable enough. Taking some direction from BenRiach and doing crazy finishes could do wonders to this. Not bad, though.

Score: 75/100
Standard.

Review #50: Glengoyne 18
Highland, 43% ABV, natural colour, 50ml sample

Nose: apple and pear, spicy cinnamon & cardamom, brown sugar, sweet malted barley

Very similar to the 10, but has a nice rye spiciness about it as well.

Taste: slightly oily mouthfeel, rye spices, satsumas, sweet apple, spicy cinnamon, vanilla, white pepper prickles

More rye spices wrapped around that Highland sweet and fruity base. Better than the 10 with more depth, but not spectacularly so.

Finish: short, spicy, vanilla, sweet malt, pears

Not much to it. A bit of spice to it like a bourbon with some rye in the mashbill.

Summary: It's alright. Nothing stupendous, but for a light and sweet malt, it's pretty nice. I don't really crave a bottle - you could get a bourbon that's pretty similar to this for less. 

Score: 77/100
Better.

* I just checked, and apparently this is sherried, but it's pretty damn subtle. Not a sherry bomb at all.

That's all for this time. I'm slowly working through my backlog, so there's still some good stuff coming, enough to push me into 60 and then some. 



Thanks to /u/buckydean for the sample!  My first time trying Glengoyne.  Aged for 18 years in a mix of refill and first fill sherry casks and bottled at 43% ABV.  Non chill filtered and no artificial color.

?

Nose:  Fruit cake.  Fudge.  Almond bark.  Smells like walking into a sweet shop.

Palate:  Medium weight and slightly creamy slightly oily mouthfeel.  Very rich sherry and eminently well balanced.  Brown sugar, fruit cake, brown butter, molasses.  Dried fruits and leather.

Finish:  Medium long finish.  Sweet fruitcake and dried fruits remain.  Some leather and a whiff of smoke.

Score: 90/100

?

This reminds me of Aberlour A'Bunadh, though it has a much lower ABV.   For my palate, I feel its even more well balanced and more enjoyable.  I don't often reach for heavily sherried whiskies, but I think I'll pick up a bottle of this.  I really dig it.



Agreed, this is the kind of sherry I like, I'm not big on sherry bombs. Glad you enjoyed it. I worked my way up to this one with the 12 and 15, and each is significantly better as it goes. 15 is fantastic too, and probably the best bargain of the bunch.  Btw my bottle does say natural colour, but nothing about being NCF.

Happy cake day!



Nope, the CS is NCF.

But while they are filtered, the G&M, they're not chill-filtered to Diageo levels. They don't bring the spirit below 0?C, which keeps it somewhat intact.



My first time trying Glengoyne.

Glad you tried an older one. This distillery needs age. Too many people try the 10 or 12 year old and write off the distillery.



Weekend greetings Scotchit! What are you sipping right now? Me this:

Glengoyne 18

Highlands, 43%

This one replaced the 17 yo in 2012. Very good one. Actually I never had a bad 17 yo... But let's stay focused...:

color: amber (natural color)

nose: roasted apples, honey, spice, marzipan, straw, muskmelon

taste: cinnamon, cola, walnuts, orange marmalade, honey, oak

finish: lingering and a bit drying

Not a sherry monster, also parts of bourbon casks in this. Complex and nicely balanced. Well made, good casks. The oak is noticeable but it's not bitter nor very dominant. Not extensively priced either.

87/100



I had  the 15 a few weeks ago..  Review to come.  It sounds very similar. Well balanced Sherry style with bourbon influence.

Have you tried any others, or just the 17?

My local shop has the 12 on offer at the moment and I'm tempted to get a bottle. 