



Hello Scotchit, RustyPipes here with another review

Glenrothes - Select Reserve - 80 proof - No Age Listed - Around $45 - Binny's - Chicago, IL

Gifted this a while back, probably not something I would have sought out. The bottle promises ripe fruit, citrus, vanilla, and hints of spice.

Not bad by any means, I just expect so much more and know it's out there.  There is a lot better in that price range for almost any palate. 

Total 66/100



The second you mention Laphroaig and Highland Park together, you know you want a heavy flavour. 

I think the Select Reserve is a very light bodied scotch that you probably aren't crazy over on principal. We got the 1998 mark a while back and felt it was a better purchase- it was quite similar to the no age mark in notes, and the price point was better. Maybe use it as a "guest" scotch. All of our favorites end up getting drunk by well intentioned guests that want to help us kill the bottle. No, that was going to be a special occasion dram, but you go ahead, take what you want out of my liquor cabinet... 



I want to be punched in the face by my scotch.

I think that's the point where you and I differ in our drinking habits and preference for scotch. When I drink scotch, I want to taste the elaborate nuances and even the history behind a great or little distillery. I don't buy big name scotch often; always seeking out micro-distilleries that produce family-curated mind-blowing limited bottlings. 

As much as I don't mind cask strength scotch (in fact, I just opened an Octomore just 3 days back) I don't drink scotch to be punched by it.



All 'punching' aside, I find almost any whisk(e)y bottled at 80 proof as a red flag of "we only want to to make money, not the best product possible."  

Now, it's up to you whether or not you want to just do the bare 
minimum. Well, like Brian, for example, has 37 pieces of flair. And a 
terrific smile.

Any scotch I drink and spend $40+ on should and will be robust, full, and rich.  I don't want to have to hunt out flavor.



I received this as a gift as well, and I agree wholeheartedly with your review.
This bottle is made by the same people that make Skyy vodka, which I'm guessing has something to do with why you see it everywhere now, and why it seems to have undeservedly prominent placement in a lot of stores.

Johnnie Black is about the same price, and is a much better drink (not that I'm saying Black is stellar, it's just a good yard-stick).



This was part of a 100ml bottle I got in a sampler that came with two Glenrothes with a specific vintage and then this.  I've long since finished the two vintage as they were quite tasty.  This has been sitting around for a while as it often got overlooked when I was trying to decide what I wanted to drink.  As I was looking for something simple tonight, this one got the call.  I notice that online this product seems to be listed at 43% ABV, but mine says 40%. 
 Not sure why the discrepancy.  Let's have at it.

Glenrothes Select Reserve, 40% ABV, no chill filtration, no color added

Overall, not bad for what it is.  It tastes a bit thin, but not nearly as much as some other 40% products.  Indistinct light and sweet flavors throughout.  Simple, yet tasty.  Finish is the weak part as it is very short.  Not a bad sipper, but you can get Monkey Shoulder cheaper.

77/100

Scotch Review #16

Glenrothes Review #1

Whisky Network Review #30



Thank you Strasse007 for voting on AnimalFactsBot.  

This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. You can view results here.  

Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!



Greetings, r/scotch! Rmill3r here with another whisky review. This whisky is part of a three-part variety pack I stumbled across in a hole-in-the-wall liquor shop for only around $30. Not bad at all, and some interested years on these bottles. Each of the whiskies in the pack were 100mL and it's my first taste from this distillery . . . 

Glenrothes Special Reserve, Speyside Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 40% abv; $43.99 for a 750 mL bottle locally; enjoyed a neat dram

Color: Pale non-descript amber

Nosing: Raisins, figs, stale cereal, dried fruits, malted barely, sweaty gym socks, muted vanilla, sliver of floral spice

Tasting: More raisins and plums, vanilla, Fig Newtons, watery mouthfeel, stale cereal, cigar tobacco shavings, cloves and nutmeg

Finish: Very short, nearly non existant, stale cardboard, awful 

Score: 58/100

I had no expectations for Glenrothes. No prior knowledge or even a desire to try this distillery's offerings. But I couldn't pass up the chance to try more whiskies for less, and so far . . . not so good. The Select Reserve is simply muted, toned down, watery, and simplistic. The label promises "ripe fruits, citrus, vanilla, hints of spice," but all I got was dried fruits, stale aromas and a fizzled-out ending. 

It was like drinking your grandmother's porridge. Not recommended. 

EDIT: I should specify that these were bottled in 2006. So the 1991 is (obviously) 15 years old and the 1987 is (obviously) 19 years old. 



Decided to pick up the Glenrothes sample pack at the store out of curiousity. I over paid for it - $40 for 300 ml of whiskey, however its less than what I would spend at a bar and potentially saves me from having to deal with a whole bottle I don't want! So without further ado, my review.

Review #48

The Glenrothes Select Reserve (80 proof)

Nose: cinnamon flavored instant oatmeal, green apple jolly rancher, unsweetened iced tea and lemon, butter cream frosting

Taste: oatmeal, apples, cinnamon and tea with some toasty pastry in the background; thin mouthfeel 

Finish: short, burnt toast and white balsamic vinegar

Overall: Faint, but there is a very nice tea note and subtle desert sweetness. Shows signs of either under maturity or poor quality casks. Something good is here, but being watered down to 80 proof and being bombarded by lesser quality malt doesn't help. Better than your widely available blended scotch, but not by much.

Rating: Fine (73/100)

Review #49

The Glenrothes 2001 Vintage (Distilled 2001, Bottled 2013, 12 years old, 86 proof)

Nose: raisin and junior mints, vanilla, honey dipped cigar, brown sugar, earl grey 

Taste: honey and raisin up front, followed by cedar box, tobacco and cocoa nibs mid palate, followed by cookie spread and coffee; thin mouthfeel, bit of tannin 

Finish: short, sweet tobacco spices, savory herbs, light roast coffee 

Overall: Much better. Still simple, but it is much richer. Surprising spice notes interlaced with sweet honey and wood. Taste almost like if Balvenie and Glenmorange had a baby. Unfortunately, the richness fades away quickly and you are left with something underwhelming. A very good 12 year old but could be much better. Still an enjoyable dram, but people who are adverse to lighter whiskies might want to stay away.

Rating: Damn Good (81/100)

Review #50

The Glenrothes 1998 Vintage (Distilled 1998, Bottled 2013, 15 years old, 86 proof)

Nose: lemon pith and orange pulp, Cointreau, melon hard candy, ceylon cinnamon, chlorophyll 

Taste: orange and cinnamon candies followed by Campari; slightly syrupy

Finish: short to medium length of citrus pith, fresh herbs, and bitter greens 

Overall: Not my cup of tea. Like whiskies with overwhelming citrus, spice and vegetable notes? This one is for you. It is predominately bourbon cask, and showcases just what the spirit can do by itself, but sometimes things can get highlighted that don't just mesh well as delicious nor is there a sherry cask to provide balance. The 12-year old is better but I would rather drink this than the Select Reserve. 

Rating: Good (76/100)



I actually bought this same pack last week :) I really enjoyed the 2001 and ended up buying the big bottle of it yesterday.   

Any suggestions of other similar ones I should try? 



color: Golden yellow.

nose: Light. Vanilla and citrus, mostly lemon.

palate: A let down. Thin and watery, although some might say it's delicate. Not much flavor until after you swallow.

finish: The finish saved this for me. Nutty. Woody. Dried fruit (prunes and cherries). Smoke but not consistently - I may have imagined it.

Taste: 55/75

Value: 9/15 ($31)

Uniqueness: 2/5

Would I buy Again: 1/5

Score: 67

I actually despised this whisky at first but I'm glad I stuck with it. I still can't say I like it, but after nearly half a bottle (not in one sitting) I have to say I respect it. I've read several positive reviews but I found it to be rough around the edges. It doesn't help that it's 40%. Maybe I just don't get it. I wouldn't turn it down but I won't be buying it again. 

Edit: I just noticed that the version in the picture I used is 43%. Maybe that accounts for the positive reviews. Anyone know how the 2 versions compare?



This is one of those distilleries I've largely neglected. I don't know if there's any merit to it, but I've always found their naming scheme for their bottles to be confusing. Maybe it's because they use years rather than age, but I find that misleading as the bottle could have been sitting on the store shelf for 4 years. I don't see many people with bottles, so afaik their stock doesn't move very quickly.

Thanks for the review... I'm even more wary now :P



This was my first Glenrothes, and I actually kind of like it.

But it's budget-priced because it's composed of various vintages in an attempt to present the "face" of the Glenrothes' approach to whisky as a whole; it's intended to introduce scotch beginners to the brand.

The Glenrothes' forte is their presentation of bottles by vintage.  Try one of their malts labelled by year - or try their Robur Reserve.  That's a good fucking bottle.



My sales last year:

Glenlivet: 138

Glenrothes SR: 152

Macallan: 198



I saw this in the airport duty free and elected for the 1L of Glenfiddich 15 DE instead, at 51%.

The Glenrothes 1985 is quite good, however!



I recently retried this Speysider, which I first sampled very early in my dramming experience. What can I tell ya? Not much, I'm afraid. A short bottle -- sort of like a Blanton's bottle. 43%, $55.  

Color: Grey-gold.  

Nose: Honey, pear, sawdust, and chalky watermelon.  

Dram: Syrupy mouth-feel. Bitter taste, black licorice, malt, rye, cashews, and sand. 

Finish: Twine, burnt-hair, and latex paint. Not good.  

Conclusions: Not even close to worth the cash. 73/100



This was the 2nd bottle of single malt that someone had purchased for me. I was completely oblivious to the ways of Scotch before I finished and I enjoyed it at the time. After revisiting it recently my notes are similar to yours, I got a lot of sour apple and pear and dryness. I enjoy Glenfiddich 12 more than this for a much lower price of admission. 

The 1998 was fairly similar to the Select Reserver also, just a touch sweeter and fuller body :) I've heard the 1985 is quite nice though, I've yet to try it out.

Nice review!



My uncle picked this up on a whim and brought it round for Christmas lunch, after which he let me take a dram for review purposes.

Glenrothes Select Reserve. Speyside single malt, no age stated and bottled at 43% ABV. Local bottle price: $70 for 700mL.

Nose: Light citrus; orange zest and grapefruit. Spicy oak, honey and vanilla. Simple.

Taste: Still quite light bodied, flavour is vanilla driven with touches of ripe pears and rockmelon.

Finish: Fresh fruits; more rockmelon and mandarine citrus. Somewhat dry, reasonably short.

I actually like this more than I did when I first tasted it at Christmas. Still nothing to write home about and definitely a good $20 too expensive, but inoffensive and easily drinkable. Also quite approachable - would be good to share with your non-whisky drinking friends.

I wonder what their older vintages are like.

74/100



The Glenrothes 1994 is actually my favorite scotch, it's got a lot going on. Give it a try. The '88 and '85 are good too, although I find the '85 (though incredibly smooth) a bit too creamy/caramel to edge out the '94.

Only tried the Select Reserve once, but found it mostly undrinkable. Nice review.



TIL...

That's one more thing I love about this sub is learning about new fruits or variations of existing ones based on the reviewers vernacular.



40% ABV

Nose: Stale and burdened with a bit of sulfur.  Sulfur can benefit some noses in certain quantities, but it doesn't complement this whisky very well.  I really had to dig in my heels and search deep for anything else that stood out.  A mild, honey flavored throat lozenge.  Bitter licorice and vanilla custard.  Pale, dusty hay that's been left in a barn loft all summer.  Slightly floral and quite medicinal.

Taste: Things freshen up on the palate.  Like the whisky just came out of the dryer with some fruit flavored fabric softener added.  A noticeable alcohol bite for a 40% ABV bottling.  Beneath the astringent alcohol are some decent toasted barley, overripe bananas, overripe pears and overripe apples.  It's like the fruits have been fermented in alcohol and toffee flavored syrup.  A few scrubbings of lemon and orange zest and some mandarin orange juice.  Apricot jam spread on a tea biscuit.  The alcohol nip fades slightly as it develops, but never disappears completely.

Finish: The finish is short and still medicinal, although less so than at first.  The licorice has returned as well as the toasted barley along with dry roasted peanuts.  Vanilla and bitter salted toffee.

Had I paid what you can get this bottle for in other markets, it would have made for a more forgivable experience.  At $75 Canadian though in B.C. (Damn you B.C. liquor prices!) and at 40% ABV, I'm left disappointed.  The nose for me was far from fresh, but thankfully the experience improves on the palate.  Adequate for around the $40 mark, and if you can get it for around that price, it could make for a decent every day dram.

82/100



Not sure if I identified plum on the nose; I called what I smelled orange peel, which was kind of nice. Put up a review here: https://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/3vb6kp/the_glenrothes_select_reserve_review_3_and_psa/

Didn't like it much at all as you can see... haha.



My last day on vacation. I've been enjoying whisky all day, with some breaks. And some walking. And some exploring. And some pictures from my wife (not that kind, sicko).

So I'm running out of whiskies to review. In life, in general. Especially Scotch. I know, what a rough life. Did I tell you how I have too many samples and diamonds now? No? Guess I've been quiet.

Anyway, I've been meaning to try an OB Glenrothes for awhile. So I ordered Glenrothes Select Reserve as what I thought was my last dram in the UK.

Suspense. But that's for later.

Glenrothes Select Reserve is a NAS offering from Glenrothes that is selected by Master Distiller John Ramsay. It's annoyed some people. As NAS does. However according to "marketing", it's raised a few eyebrows recently with some of its batches.

Granted that could be horseshit. Let's be honest, that's the idea behind marketing when done poorly: Lie. When done well, stretch the truth. When it's done really well it's the truth.

Oh well. I'm ready for this one. Let's see what this dram tastes like.

Price: $59.95 (CAD) at the LCBO

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Colour: 10YR 9/4

Nose: Sour apple, raw chicken, hay, peach preserves, rubber, plum

Yup, raw chicken. I have something under my nose that smells like I screwed up my dinner for the night, starting with the marinade and just going from there.

I had my wife okay the raw chicken part. And she worked at Swiss Chalet, so I trust her to double check. Also this smells like bad.

Taste: Plum, tons and tons of lemon rind, loganberry, blackberry, pepper

Like lemon? And easy drinking whisky? Well I have a dram for you!

Honestly, finding anything other than lemon took awhile. It's "zesty" in that "lemonade" way. Not good.

Finish: Clove, hops, sourbracht, milk, perfume-y, sourdough starter kit

Not bad finish at all. Some spice, some creamy notes, and some sour/yeasty notes. I actually like the finish. Too bad I have to suffer through the rest.

Conclusion: Nose and Taste.... bad. Finish.... alright. It's smooth, it has some fruitiness however it's just not really working for me. There's better out there. Drink it instead, unless you need to do shots. Better than some really bad whiskies I've had though.

66/100

Scotch review #308, Speyside review #89, Whisky network review #456

1001 Whiskies to taste before you die review #223

Other Glenrothes reviews:

Glenrothes 1989 Liquid Gold Caledonian Selection

Glenrothes 1997 The Ultimate



Just want to say that Swiss Chalet is the beans. We order lunch into the office when I go up to see my team every month in Toronto. Waaay better than Boston Market. Those sweet potato fries with the sauce are amazing. 

Oh, and I agree with you. Had this Glenrothes at a bar in March and tasted so young. It's not worth even 30 bucks a bottle. 



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.75   

Standard Deviation = 10.41

Skewness = -2.73970 

Kurtosis = 10.97674

Median = 80

IQR = 9.25