This is a sample I received a while back and never got to.  Seems like I can never find the right time to drink samples like this, so I guess tonight will do just fine.

Nose: Fresh oak bark and sawdust, pretty densely woody.  Dry sherry which seems to come and go with the wood dominating the foreground.  Rye(?), burnt coffee, pine bark, pipe tobacco, fresh ground cinnamon, fennel seed, and banana liqueur (somewhat artificial banana). Just really woody, almost like a well-aged bourbon.  I like the nose, but for a whisky of this price I'd prefer to see more depth coming through behind the wood.  With a bit of water and time the wood clears some and citrus oils, anise, wax and toasted pie crust start to come through.

Taste: Fairly powerful on the palate, especially for a Glenlivet.  If I didn't know what this was I probably wouldn't believe it.  Powerfully oaky with tons of tannins.  A dry well-sherried backbone with orange/lemon oil, cranberry, baked apple, oloroso, anise, and honey.  The tannins are spicy and, again, powerfully pervasive.

Finish: Tons of lingering tannins, which really develop with water and time.  There's some good sherry going on in the finish, but I'm really lost for descriptors for this one.  Without the water, this would be nothing but straight oak resin.  Luckily it holds up pretty well.  Dry, leathery and powerful with some unsweetened cinnamon, cola, apple skin, and generally dry, spicy, tannin notes. A bit cough-syrupy.

Final notes: A powerful bruiser that might as well be forty years old.  At this point it really doesn't matter, this whisky was done about five years before it was bottled.  I wouldn't be surprised if they snuck some older stash in here.  Plenty of powerful cask in here, perhaps too much.  I believe this is a mix of sherry and bourbon wood, and likely has a good amount of first fill in there.  After twenty minutes this became much more clearly Glenlivet, displaying more banana-type notes.  Water clearly helped this one, and the longer I let it sit, the better this whisky got.  I wish I had a full bottle so that I could experiment with this more, it's just one of those types.

Final score:  90/100

A footnote - It's hard to say if this whisky deserves a different mark.  Some samples are just like that, and I like to have at least four glasses before I'm ready to review any given whisky.  Until then, this loses a couple of marks for loss of vitality in its old age.

Slainte mhath



My 50th /r/scotch review. Woohoo!  The Glenlivet XXV. 43% ABV.

Color: Moderately dark caramel.

Nose: Oaky, floral, brown sugar, baking spices.

Taste: Toasted oak, malt, subtle fruit. Definitely some sherry influence but more dry and savory than toffee/fruity. Citrus peel, cinnamon, apple, anise, mint.

Finish: Dry oaky nutty raisins.

Experience was good. Moderately oaky but smooth and balanced. Nice sherry influence but not overpowering. Solid and mature tasting without being terribly exciting. 85/100



Glenlivet 25, 43% ABV, Speyside

Nose - very sweet, deep fruits, syrup, rich sherry, raisins, moist fruitcake, caramel, baked banana, rosewater, citrus berry marmalade

Taste -  sweet vanilla, rich succulent fruits and cream, cinnamon raisins, toasted almonds, candy apples, baked sugared pears

Finish - long and sweetly tannic, delicate spice

Overall:  

Here we go, I'm closing out  the last of the original Glenlivet offerings.  I've had the 12, 16, 18, 21, and now this.

Wow, Glenlivet. You know how to make a great old whisky.  The 21 is leaps and bounds ahead of all of the younger whiskies, and this 25 is an even better whisky than the 21.  I could only imagine how excellent this would be if it were cask strength, I'm willing to bet it would be even better than the Highland Park 25.

93/100



Review # 39 - The Glenlivet XXV

Overview: 25 year old Single Malt Scotch Whisky in my glass.

The Glenlivet XXV - ABV43%  

Adored Neat

Color: Deep Dark Cherry Amber

Nose: Delicately prepared fruitcake pudding, Creamy Eggnog, Pear and Shaved Almond, Apple Strudel with dusted Cinnamon, A sense of freshly fallen snow, Winter Holidays, Light Crisp Cherry and Sherry notes, Pinot Noir - Christmas Memories in a glass.

Taste: Thick Sweet Malt, Candied Red Apple, Cinnamon Coffee Cake, Gently Spiced Macadamia Nuts, Perfectly Ripened Bosc Pears, Warm Sultanas - The body starts out velvety smooth and gently warms to a low tingle and then doubles up to a sweet apple buttery syrup with savory pear edging in.

Finish: Soft warmth, into a light pepper on the palate, side by side feeling (not sure what this means), Shifts into a sweet cherry fruit zing, no burn at all in the throat, clean, crisp and dry, nuttiness, numbness lingers in the mouth to a medium-long finish with most of the notes previously described sticking around for 3-5 minutes. A syrupy sweet pear juice lingers enjoyably. 

Summary
This being the oldest spirit I've had the pleasure of enjoying during my aroma and flavor conscious phase. The age of the spirit is very apparent in the quality here. It ages wonderfully and the memories of that 12 year old rambunctious child I previously met are now distant. Savory and delicious and velvety smooth.

Score

93/100
This is some fantastic spirit, it feels like a comfy leather armchair you sink into in front of a fire. Joined by close family members all drinking hot apple cider.



I find it funny how your preference lies with the 'fiddich but have tried more 'livets. :P

I read his review too. The way he goes on about how Glenlivet really puts hood time into making sure that their older expression are up to par makes me want to sample them even more.



Haha yeah you're right. I much prefer 'fiddich 12 over 'livet 12 and I'm eager to jump into the older Glenfiddich offerings. rmill3r's review of that 15 solera vat was awesome.

I have tried the Glenfiddich 18 but it was before I knew how to appreciate whisky and I remember it being really harsh. I imagine when I revisit it I'll fund much more depth. My local place has a bottle of the fiddich15 which I'll sample next time I'm there.



Review # 105

Glenlivet 25  43%

Color:  Amber +2, Slow Medium wide Tears and Legs.

Nose:  Cinnamon, Fresher Oak Cask, Caramel and Brown Sugar, Roasted Barley, (Bourbon Barrel?) Honey, Vanilla, Roses, Clove, Figs, Sweet Citrus.

Mouth Feel:  Medium Oily Texture, Not overly Spicy but a very nice Warmth.

Taste:  A bit Dry and Chalky, then Cinnamon, Anise Seed, Pepper, Tannin, Bitter Grapes, Green Apple, Warms up with Pepper and Mint.

Finish:  Dry Red Wine, Mineral, Fennel, Licorice.

With Water:  Nose:  More Berries and Fruit, Brown Sugar back along with Vanilla, Hint of Vegetal, Linen.
Taste:  Sweet Caramel and Syrup, White Pepper, and Cinnamon back, Orange Peel and Zest.

Score:  Nose:  22,  Taste:  22,  Finish:  23,  Balance:  23,   Total: 90

This whisky opens slowly and needs time. Heavy bourbon influence (at first I almost thought I was reviewing a bourbon), much richer and more complex than the 12,15 or 18.  Best of their lineup by far. 



Review #76

Greetings friends. You can check out my previous Glenlivet 12-18 vertical here. Today we add the 25 year to the list.

Glenlivet 25, 43% ABV, Speyside

Nose: Candied figs, spiced apple tart. Roasted cashews, marmalade. Salted butter and lemon furniture polish.

Palate: Thick, coating. Faint hints of road tar diminish into mellow floral notes... heather, honeysuckle oil. Dusty, sugar-free caramel and sea salt. Faint 5-spice and butter. Extra virgin olive oil.

Finish: Vegetal, tingly bitterness. Wet oak, ghostly smoke profile. Bit salty, haunting sweetness comes about, cherry syrup dusted with ground ginger. Quite soothing and lingering.

92/100

Quite different, very good. On the nose it certainly feels like an evolution of the 18 i've previously reviewed... I think i'm going to go buy a bottle of the 21 archive so I can round it all out.



http://www.klwines.com/detail.asp?sku=1043891

http://www.hitimewine.net/GLENLIVET-25-YR-SCOTCH-750.html

Hitime and K&L usually have competitive prices if you can't find it locally.



you deserve those 2 downvotes!  because thats why.

?

anyway, if you get some 21, send me some for free 



Am I late for the 7 o'clock downvote giveaway? Oh right on time, sweet.

Also yeah it's yours when I get one.



Glenlivet XXV / 43%  ABV / $350

Tasted NEAT

So, time for this 25 year old Glenlivet, aged 20-something years then finished in Oloroso (aka stinky) sherry casks.  Is it worth the $350?  I won't know, because a kind friend lent me a sample :]

This is delicious!  Perhaps it's the cusp of where a 43% ABV can age without getting wimpy, but I quite enojoyed my 2oz sample.  While I wouldn't buy it, if there is ever a cask-strength version of an older Glenlivet, I'd love to give it another try.

It's a perfect slow-sippin' scotch for us curmudgeons.

Rating: 92/100

65th review



From my understanding, scotch tends to decrease in proof as it ages. In Scotland's damp environment, alcohol evaporates more readily than water.  For a 25 year old whisky, 43% might actually be close to cask strength.

Here is a Ralfy video in which he mentions that sometimes old whisky drops below 40%, making it no longer legally classifiable as whisky.



Sure at like 40 years, but there are tons of 25 yro cask strength. 

For example



Hmm, lets see, X is 10, V is five, that's like... shit! 25? Fuck you OP, fuck you and your whiskey that's older than me.

So how does it rank up with the rest of the glenlivet line? I'm looking to buy a whiskey older than myself, so I'm taking notes... you lucky bastard.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  up today is Glenlivet 25 year old 86 proof.  So far I've had the 12, 15, Nadurra and 18.  lets do this shit: 

quite complex and fruity.  quite alive for 25 years.  very enjoyable, but of course it falls into the category of being too expensive to buy full bottles, not until i'm rich at least.  someone make me rich!

92/100

Glen 12 - 80/100

Glen 15 - 83/100

Glen Nadurra 16 -  never reviewed, not a fan though 

Glen 18 - 90/100



Hi everyone,

Got a large multi-review dump today! I realised just a minute ago, that I haven?t reviewed any Glenlivet on here, or Glenfiddich for that matter but we?ll move to them later maybe. So today I thought I?d share my thoughts on one of the worlds most recognised Scotch brands, The Glenlivet. 

The 12 is seen as a really good entry level and could well have been my first proper single malt, although it was actually Dufftown 12. The 18 can be really good value for money but generally I find Glenlivet an easy drinking whisky for the masses.

?

Glenlivet Founder's Reserve 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Young, fruity light esters- Lemon, apple juice, a little lime juice, light pastry note- Light strudel.

Taste: Very light arrival, lemon zest, lemon peel, lemon sherbet, apple juice, pear. A bit of pastry developing.

Finish: Short/medium length. Zesty lemon peel and sherbet, a little burnt plastic afterwards.

A mark or two lower than the Master Distiller's Reserve but very similar profile. As I said easy drinking for the masses, not bad, not great.

61/100

?

Glenlivet Master Distiller's Reserve 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Light and clean but a little watery. Instantly pear drops, lots of them, young spritely esters, light artificial apple, apple juice.

Taste: Spirity and fizzy with sour- Lemon sherbet, pear drops, apple fizz, melon, a little chocolate malt.

Finish: Short length. Apple and lemon fizz.

Young and estery but I prefer this to the 12yo.

63/100

?

Glenlivet 12 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Fruit, chocolate, flowery, vanilla, caramel, quite acidic.

Taste: Peaches and cream, vanilla, plums, bit of apple, drying malt. Flowery and herbal notes too.

Finish: Short length. Flowery with lavender and drying malt.

Tasted this years ago and haven?t gone back since. Really my benchmark for whisky I don?t like and don?t want to go back to. My fianc?e thought vomit on the nose... Possibly a bad bottle?

56/100

?

Glenlivet 15 French Oak Reserve 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Lots of light fruity pear and some apple. Stewed apple, loads of pear drops. Light wood but the pear is quite overpowering. Perfume note, rosewater, hard candy.

Taste: Very, very light. Perfumed and smooth, fruity suggestions of apple and creamy pear, maybe some apple pie and malt.

Finish: Short length. Slips away with a hint of perfumed spice.

Subtle influence from the new French oak, a very floral one.

66/100

?

Glenlivet 18 43%

Colour: E150a

Body: Medium

Nose: Bit of heat at first, oak, vanilla, toffee, apple, pear, grape, bit of maltiness, bit of spice- Cinnamon. Quite bourbon-y.

Water: More fruit- Lots more sherry influence- Soft raisins, some tannins, more floral- Petals and blossom. Some mint, a wisp of smoke? Lovely citrus notes develop- Lemon, lime, juicy oranges, breakfast tea.

Taste: Bit of rough heat, spice, maltiness and oak, constrained fruit- Oranges.

Water: No heat, loads more fruit- Oranges and apples. Honey, toffee, vanilla, spearmint, floral, spice developing. Quite balanced. More water- Some citrus.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Oak and spice fade quickly. With water: Balanced oak fades more slowly.

A drop of water improves this a LOT, really delicious nose. I managed to get this at a French supermarket for ?30 which is really good value for an 18yo.

72/100

?

Glenlivet 25 43%

Colour: Light Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Fresh fruity Sherry, vanilla, caramel, Bourbon.

Taste: Soft, very sweet Sherry, quite oaky, a little too oaky into the finish.

Finish: Medium/Long length. Bourbon style with oaky wood planks.

A little too oaky really, which is a shame as I was expecting this to be really good. Just had a look at Whisky Exchange, who say this has been finished in Sherry casks.

72/100

?

Well, that?s about it. All the Glenlivet?s I?ve tasted so far. To me, it?s not something I seek out, in fact it?s normally something I avoid. But keep in mind, I generally prefer heavy, intense whiskies rather than light ones. 

Glenfiddich up next, maybe in two parts.

Reviews #247-#252



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/glenlivetdump

Network Average: 75.7

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



Understanding your scoring system, I can't disagree with what you posted here. I've never found a Glenlivet that made me sit-up and take notice. More than any other single malt, Glenlivet personifies middle-of-the-road average. Only the 15 FO did I find even somewhat interesting. I also had a dram of the 12 (only malt available) at a restaurant while traveling two weeks ago that was pretty funky; I suspected poor storage and old tailings, but your notes make me think that maybe the 12 is having some Q/A issues

Frankly, as my "serve to guests" / mixer / mindless sipper budget single malt, I now keep the Glenmorangie 10 "Original" on my shelf. It's 38 bucks, easy going with a nice malt underpinning, but also aged in some pretty good ex-bourbon wood (much higher quality casks than whatever Glenlivet or Glenfiddich are using for their 12s).



Great review dump!

I haven't had the 25 year Glenlivet, yet, but the 21 year OB is one of my favorites.  Really seems to shine at that age.  It's not a flavor bomb, of course, but it has fantastic balance (IMO). 



Thanks to /u/Tsefly for this sample.

Been a busy couple of weeks. And not "I gotta catch'em all" busy, that just started, and can be managed easily enough.

No, more like "I want to get off Summer's wild ride", which sounds awesome at first. Summer sounds like a real goer.

Unfortunately, if you're like me, Summer keeps going and you're pushing rope and punching dust (or chafing hard and numb around the maidenhead, for the ladies). It's all a little much.

So when I finally decided that the long weekend in which our plans were cancelled was a drinking weekend.

And I walked around catching Pokemon and then drank. Honestly, if less peaceful countries could do this, there would be less wars (except for the eventual Team Red vs. Blue wars, but those have been coming for a long time now).

And why not start off with a bang? The Glenlivet XXV is a twenty five year old malt. You may have assumed that if you knew Roman numerals, but honestly we don't use those except for movie titles so who gives a shit? I'll point it out.

This one is finished in Oloroso sherry casks for a couple of years. Which is nice. I like sherry casks.

And beyond that? Well it comes in a nice box. And so do I, but let's not talk about my sex life.

Let's just see how this one tastes, shall we?

Price: $349.95 (CAD) at the LCBO

Region: Speyside

Abv: 43%

Colour: 2.5Y 7/8

Nose: Caramel, coconut, wheat, mango, Malibu rum, orange, lemon, currant, floral

Very much a coconut note here. Lots of floral and fruit notes, as expected from Glenlivet. Nicely balanced between the two.

Don't expect a sherry bomb or anything like that. This is more of the smooth side of the coin. What that coin is, I don't really know, it's just a coin.

Taste: Caramel, floral, pinenuts, Sprite, oak, mango, salt

Less complexity than the nose, which is sad. Again.

I like the caramel and salt parts. They pair well with the acidity, and the nuttiness jumps in and makes for a nice threesome in my mouth. But who wants to talk about last Wednesday?

It could be a little more complex here. Glad they added the Oloroso influence, as I think it brings up the spirit here.

Finish: Mangosteen, lemon, club soda, coconut milk, mint, orange pekoe tea, rosemary

There's the complexity I used to know (like, three seconds ago).

Nice drying element, good amount of fruit, and creamy, almost herbal but not overly herbal finish. Tasty and nice finish. Getting to the complexity I wanted.

Conclusion: I have had a few older whiskies that don't need the strong influence of a cask strength. This, unfortunately, does not number among them, however comes close.

It has elements of really nice complexity. Elements I enjoy, with nuts, caramel, salt, and different tropical fruits. However I think that either it needed more time (which I doubt) or the water (which I suspect) has dulled this one to the "smooth" category.

It's a good Glenlivet.... assuming I ignore the Glenlivet's I've had that are Cask Strength. And in doing so, I say try the Nadurra line over this one. This is nice, however could be better, and unless you're really into the light, smooth aspects of Glenlivet, it's a pass for me.

79/100

Scotch review #459, Speyside review #135, Whisky Network review #752

1001 Whiskies You Must Taste Before You Die review #296

Other Glenlivet reviews:

Glenlivet 12

Glenlivet 15 French Oak

Glenlivet 16 Nadurra

Glenlivet 18

Glenlivet Guardians' Chapter

Glenlivet Scott's Selection 1977

Glenlivet Signatory Vintage 1997

Link to my website with all my reviews



I'm blown away you can still taste with all the salt I always see in your replies. (sarcasm)

True, it is. I find there's a dry aspect when I drink it, and that is what I found here. Add it onto the pile of me calling this watery during the review.



Add it onto the pile of me calling this watery during the review.

Ok that makes more sense.  If your Glenlivet were carbonated it would be a concern.



Cute label, sooo... You post here often?

jokes aside, is there a link on your site that has all the 1001 Whiskies you have tried so far in one place? Didn't see it there. 



My Current Whisky Network Average =     77.06

Standard Deviation =    10.27

Skewness =  -2.56690

Kurtosis =  9.58949

Median =    79

IQR =   9



Well it comes in a nice box. And so do I, but let's not talk about my sex life.

Good I'm not the only one :)

Great review! 