Glenfarclas, 40 years old, Speyside, 46% ABV

I have tried Glenfarclas 12 and 105: loved the 12, not a big fan of the 105. Old scotches have a certain mystery around them, for both new and experienced drinkers alike. When I was a rookie I sort of just assumed old meant better. However, with a bit of experience, I realised that this is not necessarily true due to tasting many lacklustre 18+ year olds. Something this old is older than anything I have tried before. For 40 years the spirit has been interacting with the oak barrel and picking up flavours. Thus, I expect a scotch this old to be quite complex, or, overwhelmingly woody. Scotches this old are also expensive. As such, you don't just hope, you expect to receive a quality dram. Is this the case with Glenfarclas 40? 

NEAT

Nose: smoooooooth, also very rich. Closed off to begin with, but, with some time opens up well. Sherry (almost wine like), raspberry cough syrup, very strong brown sugar, woody (somewhere between ?new? and ?old?), chocolate, prunes and raisins, rum heavy Christmas cake/plum pudding/fruit cake. 

Colour: dark brown

Body: oily with good coating. Probably ncf

Palate: dry, astringent, big flavour but smooth, more of that cough syrup!, fresh cherries, woody tannins (but not excessive), perhaps some aniseed, chocolate (dark), subtle fruit cake and dried/stewed fruits, sherry, brown sugar, some tobacco (fresh, not the smoke ? like chewing/sucking on a cigar?), and the faintest hint of strong coffee with milk and cream. Delightful interplay between sweet and dry / contrasting flavours working in harmony. 

Finish: smooth, ridiculously long, dry, earthy, bitter sweet ? strong bitter tannins and wood but contrasted with raspberry/cherries and sugary sweetness, both of which are vying for attention, ends with a hint of tobacco. Leather and ash linger after the mouthful. 

Everything is working together nicely in perfect balance; a rare trait indeed.  

DILUTION

Really opens the nose and palate up more. Just a few drops (maybe ? a tsp) does wonders. Everything becomes smoother and less closed. No major discernible changes, except that tobacco is more apparent on the nose. Adding about another ? tsp brings out more nuts and cream flavours. 

OVERALL

This is one of the most unique sherried scotches I?ve tried. If I was richer than Jesus this would be my daily dram. In addition to the old wood and fruit cake/stewed fruits, there are lots of other things going on that make it interesting. The wood is basically a constant flavour in the background that compliments the other notes. A very good example of balance and complexity, which I find myself appreciating more and more. Good to see a proper ABV and no sub 43% nonsense. Instead of readjusting my previous scores for other scotches, I have decided: 

99/100 ? it?s that good imo

I may as well use my full 100 point scale :P



The grand finale of my vertical trip through Glenfarclas and my 30th review.  This one is their oldest release from their main line at 40 years old.  If only I had more...

Nose:  Rich, full sherry and marichino cherry.  Buttered toffee, molasses, maple syrup, saltines, wood stain, and honeyed cinnamon raison toast.  Syrupy, creamy, about what you would expect from a very old Glenfarclas.  Hints of old sawdust.

Taste:  Oily, buttery, and rich.  Dry, smooth sherry full of pineapple, black cherry, mandarin, maple syrup, cinnamon, nutmeg, ginger, and vanilla cream.  A bit dry and leathery.

Finish:  Spicy gingerbread with more dry leathers and solventy oil notes. Vanilla, bittersweet chocolate, earth, rich sherry and dark fruits in syrup.  Olive oil and big bitter tannins.   Some musty old oak near the end (but not distracting) with cherry cough syrup. This finish just lasts forever, and that ashy note from the younger whiskies is completely gone here and integrated delightfully into the finish.  If you swallow quickly it is a symphony of syrupy fruits and dry sherry.  Holding the whisky in your mouth yields huge bitter tannins and old oak.  Really an experience.

Final notes:  A bit mustier than the 30 year, but I was surprised to find that other than more tannins this hadn't become too woody.  I think for the money I'd rather take two bottles of 30 year over 1 bottle of 40, but the 40 is amazing in its own right.  Add a bit of water for maximum flavor complexity, and this one just bursts open.  This whisky is an old man but still holds the big sherry power it had in its twenties (and then some).  A bit drier and more leathery than the 30, with musty oak notes.  Still bigger and richer.  Rich fruitcake with loads of dry tannins which make this quite an experience.  I actually couldn't hold this in my mouth at full strength or the intense strength of the tannins would mess with the finish.  Water helped this significantly and replaced dry leathery tones with nice syrupy fruit.  Interesting.  This is a very old whisky and my first anywhere close to this range, and I'm glad that I waited until I could experience it properly, partially thanks to you guys here at Scotchit.  I hope this series has given back a bit!

Final score:  96/100

Conclusion: I hope you guys enjoyed my trip through the Glenfarclas range as much as I enjoyed writing it for you.  It was a great birthday present and I'm glad I finally got to try some really old malts.  Just finished archiving some back reviews for you.  Thanks for reading!

Other parts:

Part I (10-12yo)

Part II (17yo)

Part III (25yo)

Part IV (30yo)



I have full bottles for 10, 17, 25 (had a 12 year but it is finished).  The 30 and 40yo were samples from master of malt.

The leather note is something you seem to get with old whisky.  It shifts between old leather chairs and fresh leather jackets etc.  The taste itself can be somewhat bitter, but with everything else that goes on in a whisky of this age it adds to the total complexity and nothing takes away.



I had reviewed Glenfarclas 40 year old previously, but I have a fresh batch here with a different whisky in it.  I still don't consider this a "new" review so I won't bump my review number.

If you're interested, my previous review can be found here:
http://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/yzt3r/review_30_glenfarclas_vertical_sherry_spectacular/

Let's start with the color: The color of this whisky is notably lighter than the previous 40 year old I had.  The glass I was able to source this summer was a solid Amber +4 or even Amber +5, while this is a more modest Amber +3.

Nose: This is a different whisky from what I tried this summer, most certainly.  The nose is filled with old wood, cedar most notably.  Leathery and earthy.  Fresh peat moss, coffee grounds and pine bark.  Sherry too, a dried fruit, cherry syrup and orange marmalade note that begins to come to the top after about 20 minutes.  I've been nosing this for quite a while.

Taste: Thick sherry floats on a sea of toasted oak.  Leathery and dry... this is an old man.  Coffee bean and dark chocolate.  Prune, fig, dried apricot and a faint hint of cherry popsicle.  A few drops of water made a world of difference.

Finish: Dry sherry with waves of fruit, tannins and leather.  Water brings out that artificial cherry tone again with strawberry leathers and a passing wave at lime candy.  It really evolves through multiple textures, with a richness of a both a juicy, bold sherry and an artisan cup of black coffee.  The wood is there, but it doesn't taste overwhelming.  The finish has clinging tannins and a mild ginger/clove note.

Final notes: Pretty much a gem.  Having only had one glass of the previous 40 year old I can't say if this is better or worse, but it certainly has a complexity above and beyond your average malt.  The taste and finish are overwhelmingly excellent, but the nose is a bit influenced by the wood.  Still, an astounding whisky.  Don't rush it or the tannins will hide its excellence!  It is completely surreal that it has waited dormant since the 1960s... across the Atlantic... well before I was born... just to end up in my Glencairn here tonight.  An experience in a glass.  Would I pay the $400-500 for a full bottle?  Maybe for a once in a lifetime event.

Final score: 96/100



I always enjoy your reviews, and have had a bit of a mixed bag myself of results with Glenfarclas over the last few years. I loved their 25 (review coming) but I despised the 30 (felt like it had lost it's character at the expense of age). 

I managed to pick up a full tasting pack of 'farclas recently when in Scotland: came with a mini of the 10,12,15,20,25,30 as a pack with a glencairn thrown in for about 40 quid.

Enjoy and thanks again!



also groan

Gah. Sherried scotches are my bread and butter with Glenfarclas way up there, this sounds like a dream. They have an awful lot of older expressions, have you tried any others?



Groan

I don't even want to read this. The jealousy hurts. 

I'm kidding of course. Thanks for the review. I think I'm going to buy a bottle of this when I get a promotion I'm proud of.



Glenfarclas 40

Speyside, 46% ABV

Nose: Cake, dark chocolate, sherry, raspberry, raisins, cherries, cigars, almonds, oranges. Very sweet and wintery

Palate: Chocolate cake, smooth and oily, cherry cough syrup, sherry, cigars, oak, almonds, dark fruit, cinnamon, nutmeg, surprising amount of alcohol punch for the ABV

Finish: Long, thick and sticky, spices (cinnamon, cloves, nutmeg), cigars, leather, dark chocolate, coffee aftertaste

94/100 I wish I had this earlier in the winter - this is like sitting in a leather-and-tobacco-aged log cabin during a blizzard. Smooth and sweet with enough spice and kick to keep it interesting, I'm actually surprised with how much flavor this manages to pack in but the 40 years does it a world of justice. Smooth, dark, warm, sweet and spicy - what's not to like? I love me some Glenfarclas, this is an improvement over the 25 and 105 which makes it a damn good dram.



Glenfarclas 40 yr / 46% / $399

Tasted neat

So this amazing malt was distilled in the late 60s/early 70s, and it really highlights how far scotch has fallen since then.  I've had the pleasure of tasting '60s Aberlour 12, and it's nothing like it is now.  While most people will be gaping at the 40 years in the cask, what's more amazing is that this was from 40 years ago, before the scotch boom and bust, the recent quality degredation in the face of increasing demand, the outstripping of natural resources.

Or maybe Scotland was just nastier then, and all of that made it into the bottle.  I don't care, this fucking rocks.

Rating: 98/100

73rd review



ambrosial myrhh

I don't know what that tastes like but I'm sure it's fucking delicious.



And for /u/UncleTobys who requested an 8 bar Glenfarclas 40 verse, I will stop listening to /r/DreamTheater and move onto /r/HipHopHeads with:

Now, name the beat!



I'm going to buy a bottle of Glenfarclas 25 or 30 considering you get a lot of years for a small price, I'm not one for sherry bombs though but I've heard raving reviews all over the interwebs about this distillery, I will however have my trusty peat bomb on standby should I find the sherryness too sweet. 

Good review. How much did you pay for this bottle? or was it a sample?



Glenfarclas 40. Speyside single malt, aged 40 years and bottled at 46% ABV. Local bottle price: $420 for 700mL.

Nose: Sweet Christmas pudding; caramel sauce, blueberries, blackcurrant, fresh juicy cherries, and strong liquorice. Old oak and dry cigar box attempting to tame the rich sweet sherry notes. New leather and spiced peaches.

Palate: Full-bodied flavour with a syrupy mouthfeel of more dense forest berries, beeswax, and peppery red wine tannins. Continuation of an oak-oriented wood element, but more subtle than would be expected of a whisky this old.

Finish: Prunes, craisins, and dried apricots. Complex, and a long, powerful length. Honey, cocoa powder, vanilla malt, raw coffee bitterness, and a defined clean light smokiness that leads the finish into the classic savoury character of Glenfarclas.

A nice weeknight Speyside to help wind down after work (although of course I'd prefer to opt for something a little more special on weekends or occasions). Also, I rarely comment on colour in my reviews, but I though the colour of this was pretty dark.

95/100



Appearance: 1.4, Tawny

Nose: Very dense fruits, cherry nyquil, orange marmalade, quite herbal, eucalyptus, rosemary, clary sage, menthol, toasted almonds.

Taste: Fantastically rich sherry arrival, very well integrated and uniform, maraschino cherry syrup, oranges, spicy toasted oak, toasted mixed nuts, white pepper and mild tannins.

Finish: Dry sherry, toasted oak, menthol, oranges and cherries. Long.

Notes: Shoutout to /u/xile_ for hooking me up with this miniature! I love Glenfarclas, but I was somewhat disappointed by the 25 year old I purchase a couple of years ago. It wasn't bad, but it was just lacking a depth I expect from an older whisky. Thankfully, the 40 did not follow in it's footsteps. This whisky is rich, balanced, complex, and a treat to sip.

Score: 92/100 



Awesome review! Are there any more accessible drams that you can liken it to?

PS: what's the proof on this one?



Glenfarclas 40, 46% ABV

Nose: Sweet and savoury. Roasted almonds. 70% dark chocolate. Boozy fruitcake with lots of dried fruit. Ripe black plums. Musty oak and worn leather. Creme caramel dusted with cinnamon sugar. Candied orange and ginger. Delicate oak spice and wood smoke. Faint coffee grounds and musky perfume.

Taste: Medium-full bodied and creamy turning tannic and dry. Pleasant bitter oak. Fresh fig and plums. Sultana, dried dates and sweet ginger. Marmalade on yeasty bread. Macchiato with brown sugar. Chocolate almonds. White pepper and anise. The tiniest hint of rubber going into the finish.

Finish:. Toasted cereal. Soft oaky tannins. Black tea with a bit of milk and honey. Sweet tobacco and herbs. Dried apricot and date. Medium-long, with lingering bittersweet chocolate and coffee notes.

Complex and rich with full flavours. Beautifully balanced and refined from start to finish. 

I have tried Glenfarclas 8, 12, 15, 21, 25, 30, 40 and a couple of Family Casks.  I still prefer the 105 which is bolder and a lot cheaper. Or even the 15 which is also 46% ABV because grandpa liked it at that strength. Good on ya gramps!

92-93/100

Review 142



Damn, nice review! 

Got to get you a sample of the 17, pretty damned good. 



?????????????????? ????? ?????????????????

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Repost this if ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~

~ ~ ~ ~ you are a beautiful strong single malt ~ ~ ~

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ who don?t need no grain ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~

?????????????????? ????? ?????????????????



?????????????????? ????? ?????????????????

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ Repost this if ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~

~ ~ ~ ~ you are a beautiful strong UncleTobys ~ ~ ~ ~

~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ who don?t need no mods ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~ ~

?????????????????? ????? ?????????????????



Sweet Wombat. Here's my tribute.

Enticing review, too.



whisky review 71a - Andy@Glencairn Crystal [9:42]

scotch malt whisky whiskey review

ralfystuff in Education

13,305 views since Aug 2009

bot info



Glenfarclas 40

(46%, sherry matured, ~$45 CAD)

?

After a hectic couple months with little time for whisky or reviews (between house hunting/packing/moving), took a break from unpacking to find something to drink to celebrate. 

?

Nose: Plum, orange marmalade, chocolate, mint, cherry cola, raisins, cinnamon, hints of eucalytpus and pine

Taste: Dark chocolate, maraschino cherries, malt, oak, orange, cinnamon, nutmeg, honey 

Finish: Tobacco, oak, cherry, licorice, fudge, walnuts, ginseng

?

Thick, rich and jammy scents lead off the nose? plums and orange marmalade to start, leading into cooling scents that alternate between mint chocolate and chocolate orange. Raisins and cherry emerge next and blend in with a bit of baking spice and herbal notes after awhile. The taste continues the theme, with a little of everything? dark chocolate and cherries up front, transitioning into a combination of malt and oak, with baking spices to balance off the sweetness near the tail end. The finish gives another take on well aged sherry influence yet again, with tobacco, fudge and a lingering nuttiness joining the party. Trails off on an aged (slightly bitter) herbal note.

?

An instant classic. The nose packs a lot of potent sherry and only gets stronger as it develops. The taste is rich, dry and spicy, but once again packs a huge sherry punch. The finish is long and drying, contributing additional layers to the overall experience. Good right from the start, but also give this a proper amount of time to fully do its thing. The flavours are rich, complex and balanced, and deliver the goods seemingly beyond its proof (I don?t get to say that too often). For the age, refreshingly nowhere near overoaked. Completely different beast compared to the others in the core range that I?ve tried. This is the massive sherry influence that I?ve always craved from Glenfarclas, but had yet to find? until now. Really well done, and especially ridiculous value in a mini.

?

92/100



"deliver the goods seemingly beyond its proof"

Being 40 years old, I wonder what its cask strength was. There might not be much water in this to get it down to 46%.

In my dream world of labeling transparency, the amount of water in all non-CS bottlings would be right there on every label.



Glenfarclas OBs are some of the most reasonably priced whisky out there, especially the aged stuff.

The well-regarded Family Casks can get up there, but even those are relatively speaking a pretty good deal. The 21 and 25 years old are quite cheap (and my state almost never has "bargains" in Scotch). I just wish they used 46% across the board.

Sadly, I don't think anyone is going to be spending more than $1000 on a Glenfarclas OB in my state. People with that much money to burn aren't going to even know the Glenfarclas name, and afficionados with that budget are going to do much better online with either a cheaper source for the OB 40, or get an older single cask.



Review 143: Glenfarclas 40yr

Massive thank you to /u/Xile_ for this sample, you are single handedly responsible for every 40+yr whisky I have tried.  This is actually my 200th review on the whisky network, my massive pile of Amrut reviews in /r/worldwhisky significantly adds to my review total. 

How is this night different from all other nights? Tonight I drink Glenfarclas 40yr. 

1) On all nights we pour Glenfarclas 40yr not even once, on this night we pour two ounces. 

2) On all nights we drink whiskey or whisky, and on this night only Glenfarclas 40yr. 

3) On all nights we drink any kind of cask, and on this night sherry!

4) On all nights we drink sitting upright or reclining, and on this night we all recline is sherry cask ecstasy.  

Nose: Rich. Sherry, dark chocolate, raisins, orange zest, oak, leather, cinnamon

Palate: Oak, wood spice, old sherry, orange, cocoa, pepper, tobacco, dark chocolate ? lots of it. Rich flavors.  

Finish: Christmas pudding, cocoa, pepper, dark chocolate, cinnamon, oak, sherry, honey. Long and finishes dry. 

Score: 91   



Wise choice, though experts agree that Tuesdays are the most deserving and best resonators of the Glenfarclas 40yr treatment!

Because people are still too weekendish on Monday, but on Tuesday the full-frame brutality and complexity of life gets exposed on you, a flimsy filament of futility recording and reliving its own fate, yearning for more and less at the same time, and only a so tiny bottle of so much can capture this so carefully.