46% ABV

Nose:  A nose that is well mannered and a little on the softer side.  The Oloroso sherry cask influence slowly builds until its mild raisin and fig smells gently caress your nose.  Beneath that lies dark chocolate and some bing cherries.  Caramels and a mild salty nuttiness round out the nose.  It has a nice calm quality about it.

Taste: This is where things pick up.  A steady, measured arrival of slightly bitter malt, followed by orange rind and sweet dried dates and grapes.  A touch of salt is there as well.  Not overly complex, but also not a sherry bomb by any means.

Finish: A little rougher in the finish, but not unpleasant.   It is savory and I detect just a wisp of smoke.  The salty trend continues here and the slightly bitter malt takes over the sweeter notes and dominates the finish.

A nice whisky experience.  If the Glendronach 15yr. Revival is just a little too much of a sherry show for you, you may just find the softer sherry notes as well as the more dominate malty attributes of this whisky more to your liking.

Mods, please note this is my 20th review.  Thank You.

89/100



Sad times, for the age statement (and quality) it's well priced in the UK!. Recon the 15 is better though, 21 is equally good (but some people seem to dislike it), and the cask strength is INSAAAAAANE, but pretty sweet.

For the money, Glendronach is my favourite whisky at the moment!.



These are samples I got from /u/wuhantang a while back. I am a huge Glendronach fan, and look forward to seeing what these have to offer.

Glendronach 18 "Allardice"

Appearance: Auburn

Nose: Dried cherries and raisins, brown sugar, mocha, furniture polish, old leather.

Taste: Arrives dry and quite spicy, intense cinnamon and pepper, ginger, dates and figs, dark chocolate, espresso, wow, hugely rich and intense, coffee cake, clove, black licorice.

Finish: Finishes slightly bitter and spicy with lingering dry red fruit and espresso coffee. Medium length.

Notes: The quintessential old sherried whisky; very enjoyable with high complexity. The finish was a bit shorter than I would have liked, but I didn't penalize it too much for that.  I honestly still think I prefer the 15 year old revival to this expression, but only very slightly. However, I would still consider keeping both on rotation in the collection.

Score: 91/100

Glendronach 1996, Single Cask, Cask # 1496, 16 Years Old, PX Sherry Puncheon

Appearance: Mahogany

Nose: A lot more sulphur on the nose (it almost smells like someone lit a match in this glass), pepper, camphor, menthol and ash. It's a struggle to get anything beyond the powerful sulphur notes.

Taste: Red fruits combined with intense spice, touch of char and ash, menthol, black pepper, ginger, allspice, cigar smoke, furniture polish, camphor.

Finish: Finishes with a lot of ash and sulphur, almost tastes like a slightly peated Glendronach in that regard. Medium length.

Notes: This one was quite disappointing. Sure, the sulphur itself is sort of interesting, as this whisky has a spicy match stick thing going on in the glass, but the trouble is that it overpowers all of the sherry influence, so you're stuck with a mouthful of spices and ash. It's still decent, but well below what I expect from Glendronach.

Score: 84/100

Glendronach 2002, Single Cask, Cask # 1598, 10 Years Old, PX Sherry Puncheon

Appearance: Auburn

Nose: Fresh red fruits, lychee and red plum, blood orange, cherry coca cola.

Taste: Sour red grapes, cherry cough syrup, orange rind, coffee cream, buttercreams, white pepper, lime.

Finish: Finishes spicy and sweet, lingering red fruit compote and pepper. Medium-short in length.

Notes: I've been focusing on only bunkering the 1996 and earlier Glendronach, but I may have to consider dedicating a portion of my resources to buying the post-mothballed single casks after this. This is an excellent whisky; lots of complexity and elegance considering it's only 10 years old.

Score: 90/100

Scores to Date: Min:66.0, Max:98.0, Avg:85.8, SD:5.0 - (Total Reviews: 131)



Nice review!

I'd have to comment I think 15 and 18 are on the same level. 15 is more "chocolatey" whereas 15 is definitely much sweeter 



GlenDronach 18 Allardice

Finally opening a mini I bought in Scotland over a year ago to compare with the 21 year old.

46%, natural colour, non-chill filtered.  Aged (exclusively?) in Oloroso casks.

Colour: Deep red-orange, copper and gold.  

Nose: Sherry, apples, honey, vanilla, bread, fresh spring air.

Palate: Sweet raisins, honey, toffee, custard.

Finish: Brown sugar, ginger, chocolate, figs.

Simple, but very nice.  Lacks the complexity and richness of the 21, but I find it very agreeable.  Sweet, smooth, not too woody.

88/100

GlenDronach 21 Parliament

Thanks to u/ziggy1283 for the sample.

My research says non-chill filtered and no artificial colour.  48% abv.  Matured in Oloroso and Pedro Ximenez.  Supposedly named after some rooks that hang out near the distillery.  If it was crows, would this be called GlenDronach 21 Murder?

Colour: Golden Red, almost like a watered down cola.

Nose: Sherry.  Definitely sherry.  Wood, raisins, blue berries, black berries, currants, short bread, cocoa, including the bitterness of cocoa, sour plums, rhubarb, lemon zest, fall apples, molasses. 

Palate: Very rich.  Sherry, vanilla, bitterness, tea, ginger bread, ginger, stewed raisins, cola.  There's a definite sour and dryness to this, reminiscent to the tannins in an earl grey or orange pekoe tea.

Finish: Oak, figs, brown sugar, grapes, lemons.

There's an impressive sherry richness to this, but there's also a rather challenging bitterness and sourness to it.  I'm struggling with this one.  So rich, but the dry notes are unexpected.  Definitely interesting, definitely good, definitely unique.  I could easily sip this for a long time and if money was no issue, I'd happily have a bottle on my shelf.  I think on the average day, I'd prefer the 18 year old (or even the 12), but of the 3, I'd say this has the most to offer despite my scoring it between the 12 and 18. Don't start your sherry journey here folks.

I must try the 15 year old, and I've misplaced my review of the 15 Tawny Port.  I'll have to try it again.  Poor me. 

86/100

Other GlenDronach Reviews:

GlenDronach 12 - 85/100



Thanks to /u/theslicknick6 for this sample. I?ve heard that the contents of the bottle are actually significantly older than what is stated on the bottle. I?m a big fan of sherried malts so this one has been on my list for some time. 

Paid: N/A

Distilled/Owned by: GlenDronach / Brown-Forman

Region: Highland

46% ABV

Aged For: 18 years bottle, likely longer based on my reading

Chill Filtered/Color Added? : NCF, No coloring

Color: Almost like a red wine, dark oak

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn 

Nose: Cherry, fruit cake, raisins, sherry, and a slight waft of alcohol. Very juicy and fruity.

Taste: Bold Sumatran coffee, orange citrus, maple syrup, oloroso, and creamy dark chocolate. 

Finish: Silky, ginger, figs, praline. Good warmth and fruity linger.

Thoughts: Complex, fruity, bold. As a Macallan lover, I?d pick this up any day over the Mac 18, especially given the price difference. The ABV is just right to give it the perfect mouthfeel without overpowering or sacrificing flavors. Now I need to try the 12 to see how it compares to my beloved Mac 12.

Score: 90/100



Their 12 is also superior (quite substantially so) to both the Mac 12's (though I find the new Mac 12 sherry DC quite interesting). You should source a bottle (or three) of the 15 if you can, because it's simply brilliant. Neither their 18 or 15 age statements reflect their actual age (the last bottling of the 15 was 19 years old and the 18 is currently 20 years old due to their being mothballed from 96-2001).

I still like Macallan quite a bit and the standard Mac 12 is my main mindless dram, but if the GlenDronach 12 was more readily available (and not going through some serious price increases) I'd probably make that my daily dram as it is (IMHO) the best 12 YO currently available.



Wagwan /r/Scotch? Glendronach 15 revival was my first tartan review, since then I?ve been through a bottle and replaced it with the cask strength. I love the stuff.

Anyway, I thought it was about time I tried some more of their range.. So here?s a few reviews of  samples I have picked up and a bottle of the cask strength (which was as steel at ?41).

GlenDronach 12 Original

Good not great, something sits a bit off. Would definitely go for the 15 instead, extra cost is worth it.

GlenDronach 18 Allardice

Meh, this just isn?t all that interesting to me. 

*GlenDronach 21 Parliament

A bit woody but lots of berries, and I like both of those tastes. I get no sulphur in these unlike the others.  I?d rank this the same as the 15, pros in comparison: more lovely berry-ness, and wood. cons: dryness, wood and cost. can?t decide if I like the wood or not.

GlenDronach CS Batch 3

Found this for ?41. Bought a bottle based on my love of the 15, and the reviews I read on here.

Wow, sweet sherry whisky and the tastiest things I?ve tried to date if I?m being honest. Maybe a bit too sweet for everyday drinking, but it depends what you like.

Summary

Sooooo, from my samples and bottles the 15, 21 and CS are the best.. Heard some people say that the 15 is a bit sulphurous but I can?t taste it (maybe I?m lucky, or just can?t tell).

If money was no object I?d get the 21 for novelty and the CS because it?s the shit!!

Previous Reviews:

GlenDronach 15 Revival - 92 90/100 (adjusted)



Half and half.. I tried them all individually on different day and wrote most of the notes.. then to finish all the samples (and because I like comparing things side by side) I went through them vertically in one session. 

I was disappointed with the 18, and surprised by the 21 considering what I was expecting after reading other peoples reviews (but I think most of that is just my tastes). Also I'm on my second bottle of the 15 and it's not as good as the first.. It's left me wondering if their consistency is a bit up and down? Or my tastes are changing?



Let me know what you think when you've tried it.. I'd hate to think I'm giving bad advice.. For a Sherried whisky/GlenDronach lover this should blow your socks off!

In the Archive the lowest score is 86, but that's by /u/UncleTobys  who hates GlenDronach, and even he said "One of the better ?Dronachs I?ve had. "



...no I'm not, I'm just revisiting some reviews that I did but didn't post because I felt they needed a second tasting to confirm my thoughts. And I'm so close to 300, I have to get these posted!

Time for a few GlenDronach reviews. I love GlenDronach, and realized I was missing the youngest, oldest, and middlest member of the age-stated and named lineup. Let's correct that, shall we?

GlenDronach 8 The Heilan

Strength: 46%

Color: Light gold. 

Nose: Caramel, chocolate, raisins, and something tart. Peaches and strawberry cream candies. Kind of a funky twist on the sherry nose. It's not a sherry bomb and the bourbon cask influence comes through. 

Palate: A bit of grainy malt for a quick instant, then bourbon and Sherry notes take over. Prunes and malt mix together. It tastes young. Bananas and an Irish blended whisky vibe are in there. 

Finish: A little rough, and a bit disjointed. 

Summary: The bourbon and sherry casks haven't had enough time to get to know the spirit well, and conflict with each other. It's great that GlenDronach put out a decent cheaper single malt, but this isn't quite what I'm looking for in a budget scotch. 

Score: 82/100 

GlenDronach 18 Allardice

Strength: 46%

Color: Amber. 

Nose: This one has more traditional sherry notes. Raisins and dried fruits, chocolate, and a bit of oak. Sharp and boozy on the nose. Toffee is coaxed out with some air, as well as fresher fruity notes. 

Palate: Luscious chocolate covered raisins, followed up by dark chocolate toffee bar. It hint at the juicy sherry profile of the 15 Revival and then swings towards the bitter oak bomb of the 21 Parliament, but sits solidly between the two. 

Finish: A proper finish, with great staying power that I expect from a GlenDronach. 

Summary: This is mathematically and figuratively the average of the 18 and the 21. If you found the 15 to be too juicy and the 21 overoaked, this is your happy medium. Personally, I think I prefer one or the other, but the balance presented here is admirable. 

Score: 90/100 

GlenDronach 24 Grandeur

Batch #006

Strength: 48.9%

Color: Amber. 

Nose: The nose gushes with jammy fruits, berries, and plums. Blind, I bet I'd guess this was younger than the 18. Tropical fruit add an extra dimension to the nose. 

Palate: This kicked off with an unusual green pepper sort of note, and then eased into growing levels of sherry. There's an almost meaty quality to it, savory and fatty, like roasted duck. Raisins and chocolates are present too, but not in the overwhelming fashion I was expecting. 

Finish: Chocolates and oak. Not as long as I'd expect from a dram this old. 

Summary: Well, that was kind of disappointing. Perhaps I was expecting the wrong sort of profile from this dram. It's quite unique, and an interesting variation on a sherry bomb, but not very GlenDronach-y. I don't really know what to make of it. 

Score: 88/100 

Scotch Reviews #151, 152, & 153

Whisky Reviews #293, 294, & 295



Nice reviews. Curse you for further encouraging my Glendronach addiction. 

Recently I tried the standard OB 15yr vs 18yr, and I greatly preferred the 18yr. 

Personally, love the extra punch of the single casks over the 46% offerings. 



Speaking of single casks, think this will lure you into a cross border swap? 

http://i.imgur.com/OJDOhxR.jpg 



Would likely be up for one, had one previous successful swap to Europe from Canada with J4ni. Probably need a couple weeks to free up some samples. 

Have a look at my inventory - https://www.reddit.com/r/whiskyinventory/comments/38fwjk/devoz_canadatoronto/ 

The following have not been added yet, but will be shortly: 



I just swapped for it, it is in the mail as we speak, arrives in a week or so. I'm opening it within 10 minutes of getting my hands on it. 

Also have the Glendronach 19 Madeira cask on the way.... I may have a small Glendronach addiction



I would be willing to bet it is more reflective of the Canadian dollar. Many of the standard single casks were purchased before the dollar dropped, and are an insanely good value. Batch 12 and the newer casks got significantly more expensive. 

So, I am stuck trying older single casks, it is a horrible world we live in. 



GlenDronach 18 Allardice, 46% ABV, 50mL sample

I reviewed the 15 Revival recently and I didn't like it that much, let's see if the 18 is any better.

Nose: Burning matches and rubber. Sour grape skin, stale oak and vinegar. Cinnamon donuts and artificial vanilla essence.

Taste: Very sharp and spicy mouthfeel. Honey, eucalyptus and marmalade. Hot pepper, anise and balsamic vinegar. Lime juice, salt and wood smoke. Burnt rubber bitterness and intense dryness.

Finish: Rubber, bitter chocolate and candied orange skin. Faint floral notes. Medium, bitter and meh.

This is worse than the Revival, I think I'm overly sensitive to sulphur.

I just ordered a bottle of the Octarine. If I don't like that one, no more GlenDronach for me.

75/100

Review #68, thanks for reading.



From MaltMadness's GlenDronach page:

"Another significant change in the production process took place in 1996 when 
the floor maltings at Glendronach were decommissioned. Because they used a 
combination of peat and coal to dry the malted barley, spirit that was distilled 
before the distillery was mothballed was relatively peaty for a Speyside whisky. 
At a peating level of up to 14 PPM it wasn't a 'peat monster' like Laphroaig or 
Lagavulin, but the whisky was a little more potent than the stuff they produced 
at nearby distilleries like Knockdhu. Nowadays Glendronach buys unpeated malt."

Don't know how recent and/or accurate that information is, though. It's possible they do now?



Thanks for the link! If they stopped peating whisky in 1996, that means 17+ yr whisky would have that peat in it. And younger age statements could potentially have that mixed in as well, legally speaking.

Even more curious, his review of the 12 lists the bottling at ~2009 which means the casks were filled during or before the mothballing. So somewhere there's a 12yr Glendronach with peat in it.

This requires further investigation!



Last night my regular specialist liquor store (one of the small handful in Israel) held a really great tasting of the Glendronach range (12, 15, 18, 21 and a 19 year old single cask) as well as 2 Benriachs which the importer has started regularly distributing (Heart of Spew NAS & 16).

The evening was really fun with good food and good company, but the real highlight came at the end when after tasting the 7 whiskies listed, the brand ambassador who'd just come in from Scotland said he had a surprise and pulled out a bottle of Benriach 35 year old. Needless to say it was a fantastic evening with a happier ending than a Thai massage. 

In the order tasted: 

Benriach Heart of Speyside

Aged 3 years, 40% ABV, Matured (?!) in Bourbon casks, NCA

Nose:  New make. Honey. Porridge. Bit of a herbal note.

Palate: Light woodspice. More porridge. More new make.

Finish: Short. More new make. Light spice. White wine tannins. 

Rating: Ew!

Benriach 16

Aged 16 years, 43%ABV, Matured in Bourbon casks, NCA

Nose:  Honey. Light herbs. Dry grass. Pineapple in syrup. Light wood (balsa).
Green banana. Apricots. Custard. 

Palate: Sugary dried fruits. Banana. Bit of salt. Some woody vanilla. Icing sugar. 

Finish: Medium. Bitter wood. Stewed fruit. Dry lemon. Hint of better espresso.

Rating: Pleasant

Glendronach 12 Original

Aged 12 years, 43%ABV, Matured in PX and Oloroso Casks,  NCA, NCF

Nose:  Stewed plums. Brandy. Brasil nuts. Mahogany. Light paprika. Nutmeg. Red fruits. Bit of floral with time. 

Palate: Dry wood. Raisins. Prunes. Macadamia. Burned pecans. 

Finish: Medium. Espresso. Bitter tannins. Bit of sweet figgy notes. 

Rating: Wishy-washy

Glendronach 15 Revival

Aged 15 years, 46%ABV, Matured in Oloroso Casks,  NCA, NCF

Nose:  Dry sherry funk. Pecans. Figs. Nutmeg. Cinnamon. Wet leaves. Hint of sulphur. Prunes. Plum wine. Raisin bran. 

Palate: Copper. Raisins. Fig jam. Bitter wood. Cough syrup. 

Finish: Long-mediun. Tannins. Dry wood. Sherry, actual. Woody nuts. Figs. 

Rating: Classic

Glendronach 18 Allardice

Aged 18 years, 46%ABV, Matured in Oloroso Casks,  NCA, NCF

Nose:  Rich wood. Sulphur. Cinnamon flavoring. Rum raisin ice cream. Mustard. Coriander. Plums. Varnish. Apple cinnamon quaker. 

Palate: Bitter wood. Gooseberries. Plum jam. Woodspice. Bitters. Cloves. Sherry funk. Some orange peel. 

Finish: Long. Menthol. Wood. Figs. Pecans. Cough syrup. 

Rating: Classic with some spice

Glendronach 21 Parliament

Aged 21 years, 48%ABV, Matured in PX and Oloroso Casks,  NCA, NCF

Nose: Px. Px. Px. Some toasted wood. Figs. Sticky raisins. Mahogany. Christmas pudding. Light cinnamon. Silan. 

Palate: Matches. Black cough syrup. Aniseed. Camphor. Dried figs. Stewed fruit. 

Finish: Long. Raisins. Acacia sap. Salted chocolate. Burned pecans. 

Rating: Very.... sticky. 

Glendronach 1995 Single Cask PX

Aged 19 years, 55%ABV, Matured in a PX Cask no. 538,  NCA, NCF, CS, SC

Nose: Plums. Raisins. A cinnamon bun with raisins and icing. Fig jam. Silan. Wet leather. Dark aromatic woods. Dark red fruits. Little maple syrup. 

Palate: Thick and sticky px. Woody nuts. Honey. Pecans. Candy apple. 

Finish: Long. Cough syrup. Molasses. Wine cake. 

Rating: Stickier

Benriach 35

Aged 35 years, 42.5%ABV, Matured in Bourbon and Sherry casks,  NCA, NCF

Nose: Spearmint. Black tea. Milk chocolate. Bailey's. Candied pineapple. Kiwi fruit. Wet stone. Peach iced tea. Raspberry sherbet. Pomegranate. 

Palate: Bitter wood. Rose water. Anise. Strawberries. The nice glue. 

Finish: Long. Bitter wood. Pomegranate juice. Pineapple juice. 

Rating: So Good!

Conclusions: Glendronach isn't really my style, but always willing to try new whiskies. Their range is very good in terms of quality. The 12 was quite sweet due to the PX influence, felt a tad unbalanced. The 15 and 18 were quite similar (in more than just profile ;) ) ,classic sherried whisky, dry, fruity, though I found the 18 a good deal spicier. The 21 was nice,  sweet but better balanced than the 12 by far. As for the single cask, I reviewed a similar cask a little while ago,  same opinion,  too sweet for my tastes but very good quality. 

Now the Benriachs were more my thing. Heart of Speyside was pretty much new make with just enough barrel time to change colour. Leaving it at that. The 16 was fantastic. Loads of tropical fruit, floral notes and honey. Everything you'd expect from an ex bourbon speysider. 

And the 35. Well. It was fantastic. Never worth the price asked, but fantastic. Bursting with all sorts of herbal and fruity notes which is surprising given its age, and so we'll balanced. Really made the night for all of us. 



Hi everyone,

After Glenfiddich we popped over to Speyside Cooperage for a quick tour and some food. Then it was time to take u/generalbirdy over to Glendronach, as he?s a huge fan of Sherried whiskies. I?d been on my last trip to Speyside but had only done the basic tour. So this time we did the Discovery tour with some tasters of stuff I hadn?t tried yet.

?

Glendronach is a lovely traditional distillery, set well away from the main Speyside trail in some lovely rolling hills with swaying barley fields. You are shown the old maltings that were active until 1996, then the cast iron mash tun, wooden washbacks, etc. Since we were there on Friday afternoon, the distillery had shut down for the weekend and everything was being polished, which was actually a nice change to the heat and shouting (over the noise) tour guides of many other places.

?

It?s interesting to find out how much distilleries are running too, Glendronach, as well as many other places, run 24 hours a day over 5 days, while some distilleries are 24/7 if demand is high. I also asked whether Brown Forman (who bought the distillery last year) had made any changes and the guide said that there had been no changes to the production as of yet.

?

All the stills at Glendronach were direct fired until 1996 too, but the distillery was closed from then till 2002. This means, if you do the maths, that recent batches of the 18yo will be 20 years old. What I don?t like about the Glendronach tour though, is that you don?t get shown any of the warehouses, just a window into one. This is a real shame as that?s always my favourite part of a tour. 

?

The tasting for our tour was meant to be the Cask Strength, 21 year old and the Manager?s Cask (a bottle your own). Unfortunately, it had been Spirit of Speyside festival earlier in the month and a few distilleries were out of their bottle your own?s. So we had a 1994 Distillery Exclusive Single Cask instead. All of the them were really good, we were Mort-lapping it up?

?

Glendronach Cask Strength Batch 6 56.1%

Colour: Dark Gold

Body: Medium

Nose: Alcohol and Sherry fruit, herbal, fresh mint sprig, dunnage oak. Fresher with water with some nice lime.

Taste: Amazing fresh lime on arrival, lovely Sherry and chocolate powder, then some malty and spicy notes. Raisin, leather and a little oak.

Finish: Long length. More malt now, some leather and chocolatey oak.

A lovely whisky, really surprised by the freshness but the nose was a bit closed.

78/100

?

I reviewed the 21yo fairly recently and it was just as great as I remember, maybe it deserves an upgrade to 84/100 but my review is here.

?

Glendronach 1994 Single Cask Distillery Exclusive 54.1%

Colour: Dark Amber

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: A mix of fresh and old, ethereal and minty, sweet Sherry, intense grape. It?s quite closed though, with water that dunnage note comes out.

Taste: Soft, perfect grape, really velvety, looooooooong development, builds to a spicy and malty ending.

Finish: Long length. Black pepper, malt, then chocolate powder.

An immaculate arrival, but that nose is closed again. Bottled 2015 from PX Cask 1189.

81/100

?

Glendronach 18 46%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Lovely, classic Glendronach, lovely chocolatey malt, nutty, fruity and sugary with brown sugar.

Taste: Rich, nutty first, then malty with a lovely balance. Spiciness building with clove and pepper.

Finish: Long length. Spicy and fruity.

u/generalbirdy managed to blag a sample of this, thanks bro (He bought one too). Very very good, and a great bargain at the moment as it?s over 20 years old. It was great to compare this directly with the 21yo too, and although I still prefer the 21, it was a close call.

82/100

?

Thanks for reading!

Scotch reviews #383-#385

Whisky Network reviews #429-#431



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.com/glendronachtour

Network Average: 74.5

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent

?

Full Disclosure Disclaimer: I currently work as a Brand Ambassador for Penderyn Distillery. The views expressed here are purely my own and do not reflect the views of Penderyn Distillery or The Welsh Whisky Company. I try to maintain as much objectivity as I can but feel free to take my reviews with as big a pinch of salt as you like. Furthermore, my rating scale is NOT based on a Parker type wine scoring scale or a school/college/university % or A-F grade score. You can find more on my scoring here. I apologise for any seemly low or 'bad' scores given with my system and am sorry I can't say only nice things. Please keep in mind that I am ethically compromised and am unable to produce 100% unbiased reviews.

Why is this here?



So awhile ago, I picked up three samples of GlenDronach whisky.

And then I swapped a lot, cut back to two samples a week, did some other things, went on vacation, etc and promptly forgot about them, other than cracking the 12 for the community review (see link below.

So now that I've cut back on swapping, and it's a new year, it's time to finally get to the remaining GlenDronachs in this quad review.

Special thanks to /u/ziggy1283 for the 21 Parliament sample and to /u/Jolarbear for the sample of the 15 Tawny Port.

So, GlenDronach. What's up with them? Are they be going like others while other places be going a different way? No, and that sentence was as hard to write as it is to read.

Located in Aberdeenshire, and owned by the BenRiach distillery company. Which the giant fucking D should have given away as soon as we saw it.

Founded in 1826, and ran until 1996 when it was mothballed... for a short time, then being opened again in 2001. It's passed hands quite a bit, being owned by Walter Scott, Charles Grant, and Teachers and Sons.

The name comes from where they draw their water, the Dronac burn, which is on distillery grounds.

So, how does it taste?

Region: Speyside

Up first, we have the GlenDronach 15 Revival. This was released to celebrate BenRiach owning the distillery, and is Matured in Oloroso sherry casks.

Just calm down, I know you love some Oloroso, but let's not tip the waiter before the foods out just yet. We know it's a proper Abv., it's non chill filtered, and it's of natural colour (which is amazing). And yes, it's fully aged in the sherry casks.

But seriously, it's still close to the Highlands, and I'm biased as all get out against them, so let's wait and see, shall we?

Price: N/A in Ontario. I know, you're so surprised.

Abv: 46%

Colour: Burgundy

Nose: Strawberry, plum, kiwi, nutmeg, sugary, orange rind

Well, they weren't kidding about the sherry influence one bit. This has that grown-up fruit punch nose to it, with just the right amount of acidic notes.

Could be on the sweet side as time goes on though.

Taste: Strawberry jam, brown sugar, bubblegum, cinnamon, mango, cherry

However the taste isn't overly sweet... to me. I once ate 12 creme caramels in one sitting though, so I may have screwed up my tastebuds with too much sugar.

I wish there was more spice. That's a nit-pick, but an honest one at least. Otherwise it's quite tasty.

Finish: Nutmeg, strawberry, lemon curd, brine, cucumber, mushroom

Earthy is a word that I throw around sometimes, and this is earthy. Almost sourly early in some ways. Too earthy, in fact.

Conclusion: I'd say it's a tiny step up from the 12, however the finish isn't doing it any favours. The strawberry/nutmeg/lemon is helping fight the good fight, though there's quite a bit of earth there.

82/100

GlenDronach 15 Tawny Port Cask Finish. Woah. Calm down. Let's just all calm down, get off the Port Finish Hype Train, take a chill pill (I prefer Celebrex), take a deep breath, maybe meditate, have a wank/twip, and just calm down.

Okay. We all good now? Great.

This is initially matured in European Oak and then finish in a small batch of Tawny Port casks. This one was launched in 2011, and it's since been replaced (I think) by an 18 year version.

And who here hasn't replaced a 15 year old with an 18 before? We were all young once. And that's honestly the better way to go, because you stay out of prison more often.

And with that, I've cemented myself on a list somewhere.

Price: $99.60 (CAD) at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: Brown/Light Purple

Nose: Nectarine, lemon, watermelon, cranberry, cherry, anise

Tons of nectarine goodness, really juicy nose. Smells like it would be juicy. If you don't understand, re-read my comment about 18 and 15 year olds.

Taste: Melon, smoke, anise, plum, lots of strawberry, green grapes

The Green melon, specifically. We're no longer talking about 18 year olds, get your mind out of the gutter.

Tons of strawberry notes as well, and a nice amount of anise for me. I love Anise flavoured booze, so this is happy town for me.

Finish: Anise, pepper, woody, taro, chipotle, salami, red grapes

Good amount of spice and smoke. A nice amount of earth in here too, with some acid. I'm enjoying this more than the finish on the Revival.

Conclusion: If the 15 Revival had the finish on this one, I'd have scored it a lot higher. However the taste on this one is mostly strawberry, yet the finish has a better balance. The noses tie. It squeaks by the Revival for being that little bit better. Good dram all around.

83/100

GlenDronach 18 Allardice is named for the founder, who sometimes went by Allardice. Or his name was pronounced that way. Or something. I couldn't really figure it all out. None the less, he done good, his names on the booze.

That's how you know you've made it: Your name is on the booze. Of course he was long dead by the time his name was on the booze, but he still made it. Yay James Allardes.

This one is again matured in Oloroso sherry casks, but again, we don't make assumptions just because this company is doing everything right and then some.

Yet.

Maybe.

Okay, I do now, but I didn't know that then, so I stand by my review.

Price: No buy in Ontario

Abv: 46%

Colour: Dark Brown

Nose: Rum cake, cinnamon, allspice, strawberry, red grapes, rhubarb, raisin

Initially smells exactly like a rum cake, with the different spices, the molasses, and the red fruits. Eventually some of those notes become dominant in the nose, and it's really tasty.

Almost like baking yourself. Not quite setting off memories though.

Taste: Allspice, ginger, lime, paprika, brown sugar, peanut

Big ole spice punch to the jumblies, and in a good way that people have to pay a lot for. Eventually the spice subsides, and there's a lot of nutty and molasses notes.

Finish: Cherry, grapes, ginger, nutmeg, cumin, brine, caramel

Good amount of fruit at the end, and the spices are still there. There's a tid bit of brine and caramel that mixes well.

Conclusion: I think the nose really takes center stage on this one, so if you're all about noses before... broses? I don't know, I'm stressed and tired... Anyway, if you like the nose on whisky most of all, you'll enjoy this.

If the taste and finish had been up to (or above) the nose, it'd get a lot better score. I had trouble figuring out which I liked better: The Tawny Port or this one. After ruminating on it for a few days, I think this one is that little bit better, due to the complexity and the uniqueness.

84/100

GlenDronach 21 Parliament.differs from the core lineup in that it's matured in a combination of Oloroso and Pedro Ximenex sherry casks.

I know, I know, we were all excited for tons of Oloroso matured whiskies, but don't fret just yet. This is the start of GlenDronach's upper level portfolio, and no one ever complained about a quality 21 year old, so let's give it the benefit of the doubt.

Price:Not Currently Available at the LCBO

Abv: 48%

Colour: Coffee with half a cream

Normally I don't go on about the colour. Seriously, it's there in the picture, and most of the time it's just "oh, it's whisky" in my mind, so I don't pay attention to it. 

But this is DARK. Like Northwest Territories Dark for 16 hours of the day dark. And it's naturally coloured. Damn, that's a thing of beauty.

Nose: Plum pudding with caramel, raisin, ginger, yeast, blackberry, mint, raspberry

Complex doesn't even begin to describe this one. Exactly like a plum pudding with caramel, all served hot as balls and twice as appealing.

Taste: Raisin, Sprite, allspice, ginger, hazelnut, cocoa, older strawberries, cake

Don't eat moldy strawberries. I think. I watched Mind of a Chef on rotting food, so I don't know exactly anymore if you shouldn't.

However old strawberries have that extra sweetness to them, and that's right in here. Again, complex taste, lots of different things going on in this one.

Finish: Nutmeg, walnut, hot chocolate, raspberry jam on hot toast, yeast, hops, tannins, brown sugar

Big finish that keeps evolving as time goes on. Again it's really complex. And while I normally don't like too much hoppy flavour, this is the right type of hops (for me). It's floral and adds the right amount of bitterness.

Conclusion: Parliament is in session, and, unlike where I'm from, everyone has shown up and is accounted for. Really big flavours, really nice to sip on, a beautiful dram by itself, and the taste is amazing. It comes so close to setting off memories (which is usually required to get above 85 for me) that I'm breaking that rule this one time. It's just so complex and flavourful.

You can't go wrong buying this one.

87/100

Scotch reviews #226-229, Speyside reviews #66-69, Whisky network reviews #334-337

1001 Whiskies you must taste before you die book reviews #172-175

Other GlenDronach review:



The Three GlenDronach's I was able to buy were right from Edinburough.

The other two were from swaps with other people. However you can grab the Tawny Port at the LCBO at the moment.



My Current Whisky network average = 79.26

Standard Deviation = 8.35

Skewness = -2.05791

Kurtosis = 6.77603