So this was actually a sort of random pickup while on my way back from a Korea/Japan trip back in 2015. I was just getting into whiskies and was more focused on bourbons and Japanese whiskies so when I found out I couldn't pick up anything at the Narita airport I was a bit disappointed. I had a bit of time while at the Incheon airport and so I started browsing. Holy crap the duty-free shops there are quite possibly the worst experience I've ever had at any store. All of the people there were super pushy, in-your-face, and wouldn't leave you alone, but once you actually wanted something, they weren't there to help. Anyway, end my rant about the horrible customer service experience at that airport's duty free stores.

So the Glenmorangie Signet is one of the more "premium" offerings from Glenmorangie as it comes in a deluxe glossy box with a display base for the heavy duty bottle that comes with a super hefty metal/cork stopper. The black gradient glass is representative of the contents which, according to Glenmorangie, contain a portion of 30+ year Scotch as well as:

"unique roasted 'chocolate' barley malt and the 'designer casks' made bespoke for Glenmorangie from American white oak"

My previous experience with "chocolate barley malt" has been with some of Westland's expressions which I enjoy, so let's see how this fares.

Glenmorangie Signet / 46% ABV

Setup - Neat in a glencairn

Wallet Damage - July of 2015 / 700mL / ~$114 USD / Seoul Incheon Airport Duty Free

Region/Type: Highland

Filtration: NO

Nose - Caramelized pears, wine stewed dried dark stone fruits, cocoa nibs, espresso crema, flamed orange peel.

Taste - Dark chocolate, skin-on hazelnut praline bittersweet, light fruity bitter orange pith, black peppercorn and cinnamon poached pears.

Finish - Lingering dark chocolate bitterness, sweet nutty bittersweet, faint black pepper fading heat, malted milk candy sweet.

Score - 89/100

Final Thoughts - This is my favorite Glenmorangie expression I've tried thus far. The nose is incredible and I can feel as if I can nose it for days. Sadly it falls a bit flat once it hits the tongue as you're a bit overwhelmed by the soft chocolate bittersweet. I was hoping to get a bit more dark stone fruits, but those were significantly downplayed and overwhelmed by the chocolate bittersweet. The finish is long lasting, but is a bit one-dimensional as it lingers like you ate a dark chocolate malted milk ball and that's about it. Definitely meant to be sipped neat, although I can see this being turned into a super fancy chocolate/dessert old fashioned too.

Whisk[e]y Network Review #173

NOTE - All reviews are done without factoring in price paid.

EDIT: forgot a letter



Yes they do, according to the blurb on the Glenmorangie website:

"A fusion of unique and rare elements, and clouded in secrecy, Signet is the culmination of a lifetime's experience. A blend of our oldest whisky - distilled over thirty years ago when malting still occurred on site ? and spirit matured in a selection of the world's finest casks, this undoubtedly is the richest whisky in our range."



I sampled this at one of the LCBO tasting bars.

Appearance: Amber +3

Nose: Chocolate and coffee cake, caramel, toffee, malted chocolate balls. Water brings out slight smokeyness.

Taste: Rich and spicy arrival, lots of layers of spice (ginger, pepper, allspice), lots of dark fruits, quite complex and intricate.

Finish: Dry and spicy finish with lots of fruityness.

Score: 89/100

I could spend all day nosing this whisky. I love the chocolaty richness blended with the floral and fruityness of Glenmorangie. However, the chocolate is really hard to find on the palate. That doesn't mean the palate is bad, just a bit misleading considering the nose. I do eventually want to get a bottle of this, despite the hefty pricetag.



Submission added to database (but not yet archived in the official Whisky Review Archive, please do so manually).

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



So far I have been very disappointed with the Glenmo?s I have tried. Guess I?m a sucker for their packaging. Some of the malt is roasted ?chocolate? barley malt, something used more in beer than scotch. Combination of American ex-bourbon and new oak barrels. Thank you to /u/bradyrulez for the sample. 

Paid: N/A

Distilled/Owned by: Glenmorangie /  LVMH Mo?t Hennessy Louis Vuitton SE

Region: Highland

46% ABV

Aged For: NAS, I read that older vattings were majority 30 years and up, but I find that doubtful. 

Chill Filtered/Color Added? : Non chill filtered, possibly colored

Color: Dark copper

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn 

Nose: Dried fruit, orange peel, raisin, vanilla, hazelnut and chocolate porter. 

Taste: Disappointingly watery. Milk chocolate dominates. Honey, malted barley, citrus and sherry.

Finish: Short and gentle. More malt and honey. Bit of berry and oak.

Thoughts: Tap the breaks on the hype train because there?s no way this is as good as the reviews let on. For the price the watery palate and weak finish are unacceptable. The flavors are pleasant, but this is a $75 dollar bottle being peddled as a $200 + one. 

Score: 80/100



OK, so I'm having fun with comparative reviews, and I'm doing another one purely for personal enrichment without any thoughts that these kind of reviews might catch the attention of that guy who makes the weekly round up ahem. This is certainly not a horizontal review since both offerings are Glenmorangie, but it's not exactly a vertical since the Signet doesn't have an age statement, though it's supposed to be the oldest Glenmorangie. In any case, these are both highly acclaimed offerings from good ole Glenmorangie, so let's see how they stack up.

Somebody who I'm supposed to highly value the opinion of said this was whisky of the year right? Well I picked up this bottle based on the reviews from the fine members of /r/scotch, not a single well known critic. Aged in virgin american oak casks, this guy has been aged 19 years. Was it time well spent?

Glenmorangie Ealanta

Strength: 46%

Color: Yellow gold.

Nose: Citrus fruits, lemon and orange. A little bit of sweet syrup.

Going back to this after trying the Signet, I'm getting some nutty notes that I didn't pick up on before. I wanna say almond.

Palate: Smooth and refined, followed by a rush of flavors I want in a good cookie. There's a molasses sweetness, vanilla spice, and....BOURBON (name a dessert that isn't better with a little alcohol in it, go on). Why hello American white oak, I see you are heavily charred. And now for a list of typical bourbon flavors: vanilla, oak, cinnamon, brown sugar, but NO CORN.

Finish: Now you get a little heat, and a faint bitterness amongst all those sugary flavors that I listed before. That's what 19 years will do! It has the characteristic oaky aftertaste of a dram that's been aged long enough to legally drink (in Canada).

Summary: This is, quite simply, what I believe bourbon would taste like if made with an all barley mashbill. Frankly, I think barley is my grain of choice. Wheat is probably second, then rye, and corn not so much. Honestly, when I first tried this, I was disappointed. I felt like I just bought a bourbon that was a lot more expensive than, you know, bourbon. I've left this bottle alone for some time and whether it's oxidation, changing taste buds, or even humbled expectations, I'm digging this a lot more right now. Maybe I'm just in the mood for it.

Score: 90/100 

Scotch Review #20

Whisky Review #25

Now here's a sample I've been waiting to crack. This sample is courtesy of /u/mkflorida who has quite the collection of high-end scotches that all have Glen in the name. A full bottle of this is easily worth more than any bottle I've ever purchased, so this is a treat!

Glenmorangie Signet

Strength: 46%

Color: Orange gold.

Nose: I feel like floral is usually a code word for pleasant but boring, so I'm hesitant to use it since the latter term certainly does't apply. This is like a flowery perfume, or rose water. Overripe fruit, like strawberries that have gone soft with sweetness. Cherry cordials. 

Coming back to this after a little while, I'm finding a really sweet note, like confectioners sugar or donut glaze.

Palate: Oh wow, this is all over the place. First it's light, then I'm getting a tour around a box of assorted chocolates. There's a raspberry creme, hazelnut, a strong mocha, and toffee. The flavors really build up and evolve on the tongue.

Finish: This goes down like tiramisu, leaving a tingling feeling in its wake. Having not experienced it, I would think the finish resembles strong turkish espresso. It definitely matches the aftertaste of a good imperial stout, like Old Rasputin.

Summary: Clearly some mastery went into blending the casks of this single malt. It has features of a very old (at least as old as I've ever tried) whisky, but they're balance by some younger and more vibrant flavors that I imagine come from a less aged spirit. The result is very complex, balanced, and coherent, without blemishes or off notes. If my description of the flavors fits your ideal profile, this might be your perfect whisky. This whisky really makes me wish I liked coffee. Just like Old Rasputin.

Score: 91/100 

Scotch Review #21

Whisky Review #26

Final Thoughts: Both of these were really hard to score. They're both quality drams, and are executed very well, but don't exactly cater to my personal flavor profile preferences. I can certainly judge these, since they were still very enjoyable to me (unlike peat monsters, which I can't rate objectively due to my dislike), but they weren't quite made for me. I settled on scores that gave them the credit that they deserve, but factors in my overall feelings as well.

Related reviews

Glenmorangie 12 Quinta Ruban

Glenfiddich 14 Rich Oak



How have you not been given flair yet?

Geez mods, stop being so lazy!



Why do you torture yourself? I really don't understand the community over there. I've tried to jump in every now and then but it's like a middleschool skanking mosh pit; too awkward to find a rhythm. 

I've tried poking people and helping people but it's just... different. 



Ohhh la la!

Now I've just got to post a few more reviews to get that sweet orange and blue tartan, and then hoard the rest of my reviews!



Nice reviews! In my experience, Glenmorangie is best after it's been open for a month, whether that's woo or not.

And I'm right there with you on malted barley. I just love the whisky it turns into.



Thanks! It was a fun comparison. 

You just gave me an idea.

The suspense is killing me. 



Glenmorangie Signet

(46%, NAS, NCF)

?

Ah, here we have marketing at it?s finest. Luxurious box? Check. Fancy bottle? Got it. Whisky that is a riddle, wrapped in a mystery, inside an enigma aka ?a fusion of unique and rare elements, and clouded in secrecy?? She?s a witch! One can and should expect no less from one of the houses in the behemoth that is LVMH. What?s not to love?

In all seriousness, a small percentage of this includes whisky made from ?chocolate malt? - heavily roasted malted barley which is typically used in the making of porter/stout beer. Inspired by a love for coffee, Signet also contains whisky from Cadboll barley (no, not Cadbury), a single-estate crop that apparently lends its creaminess to the spirit. Finally, this is a mix of young and old whisky, and aged in a variety of casks, including oloroso sherry and virgin charred American white oak (I think).

Though unsure if this pauper is worthy of owning such luxury, thankfully I know a prince who is... thanks to u/Lasidar for the sample! 

?

Nose: Roasted coffee beans, powdered chocolate, butterscotch, orange marmalade, oak, citrus, hint of nutmeg

Taste: Crunchie bar (milk chocolate, honeycomb toffee), syrup sponge cake, vanilla custard, blood orange, nutmeg, oak

Finish: Cocoa powder, nutmeg, oak, a faint bitter note (orange peel/grapefruit)

? 

Soft flavours and creamy texture, loaded with rich dark notes. The "chocolate malt? seems like the real deal here... refreshingly more than just a marketing gimmick, it?s influence in this one is no joke. Sweet on the tongue, with a little spice? fades into some faint bitter notes. Delicate warmth on the finish. Medium length and drying.  

Whisky like this creates a dilemma. It?s unique and tasty, but sadly at a pricepoint that puts it into competition with some very good alternatives. I?ve debated a bottle many times, only to go with something else. Also, being NAS there are no guarantees that future batches will hold the exact same recipe components (not saying they've done this, but there is always that risk). In any case, very unique and glad I got to try this though.

?

88/100



Whisky like this creates a dilemma. It?s unique and tasty, but sadly at a pricepoint that puts it into competition with some very good alternatives.

This is pretty much exactly the problem. It is priced slightly high enough that its a bitter pill to swallow. If this was $150, or even $200, it would be a no brainer as a staple on my shelf. Nice review.



I couldn't agree more. Couldn't help but feel that the flavours were a little too muted and restrained and that bumping the ABV to put out the same, but bolder, would create a more decadent whisky that would be much harder to turn down a bottle. 

Of course doesn't hurt that it currently goes for $340 CDN around these parts, though it can still be found for around $220 CDN.



Don't let your lowered expectations of the LCBO cloud your judgement. While it is a tasty one, it can also be found in other provinces for as low as $230. At $339, there are just too many alternatives.

I do agree that their Balvenie and older Glenfiddich pricing is hilarious though. Hope they choke on all that inventory.



Either that or they are allowed to sample too much product during their shift :)

If anyone has an avenue for a LCBO work around please PM me. The less money I can give them the better.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  Got a sample of Glenmorangie Signet 92 proof last week.  I've had a mixed relationship with Glenmorangies, hit or miss for me.  Lets do this: 

very nice.  might be a bit overproduced but thats not a negative really.  Signet?  SIG-net?  SigNAY?  I don't speak France.   I like what theyre doing here, I should pick up a bottle....$200?! fuck that I have Laphroaig to buy. Astar is better anyway.

90/100

review recap

Glenmorangie Astar - 92/100

Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban - 92/100

Glenmorangie Original 10 - 77/100

Glenmorangie Nectar D'or - 79/100

Glenmorangie 18 year Rare - 88/100

Glenmorangie LaSanta - never fully reviewed, mid 60's/100



Yes, I just think you are too dismissive of it due to the overly enhanced marketing spiel that texacer quoted for us.

Just because it is over-produced doesn't mean that it is actually crap, although it certainly may be.

In any case I'll be buying a dram at a bar long before I shell out for an entire bottle, that's for sure.



Do it! I bought a second bottle after I enjoyed my first few drams as much as I did, now the first is empty and I stare longingly at the second, unwilling to open it since I don't want to not have it any more...

Placed an order for a case of it today, though, so once I have them in my hands I can rejoice that my Ealanta lust can be satisfied for a long time to come.



It's actually in my whisky cabinet. I can still see it there, mocking me.

Picking up the extras tomorrow, though, so it will be a good Friday evening indeed!



I mean, I'd take that as a compliment. 

They just called your erection huge. She could have said "You have an erection... a tiny one, but still."



Have you tried Artein? Probably my favourite expression from glenmorangie so far.

If not, hows about a swap. I'd really like to try the Signet and perform a side by side review. (mainly to shut up a wanky customer that whinges that we don't sell Signet because "its just the best bottle you'll ever buy")



Got a sample of Glenmorangie Signet 

so I dont have a bottle to trade



Herp Derp, I'm off to bed.

Apologies.



Every year Glenmorangie releases a ?private edition?, an annual limited release, usually with no age statement, but they are regarded as being quite good. This particular one if from 2014 and was matured in Grand Cru Burgundy & C?tes du Rh?ne Casks.

I mentioned the importance of wine casks in some other posts as sherry is becoming less and less popular and thus so are good quality sherry casks. So understanding the possibilities of wine casks is important.

Dr. Bill Lumsden, the master distiller at Glenmorangie has quite an obsession with cask types and really likes to muck about with all sorts of wood from a wide range of sources and is quite at the forefront of testing the effects of various wine casks on whisky maturation. These private editions are the results. This was matured in a mix of dry and fortified sweet red wines.

Aged 3 years*. 46%ABV. Matured in American Oak and then 60% in Grand Cru Burgundy & 40% C?tes du Rh?ne Casks. No colourant added and non-chill filtered.

*for lack of age statement.

Nose: Sulphury , like sherry, but not quite. Chocolate with orange peel. Glazed meat. Dark red fruits. Slightly nutty wood.

Palate: Bitter wood. Citrus rind. Woodspice. Almost a Calvados taste. Bitter chocolate.

Finish: Quite long. Sherry-esque sulphur. Dry. Wood. Bitter coffee. Woodspice.

Would I buy this: Yes

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 3/5

I liked this quite a lot. The nose somewhat reminded me of a good sherry matured whisky, but somewhat spicier and fruitier. It wasn?t offensively young either, there was definitely some good quality stuff in here and really shows the potential for wine casks in whisky maturation when done properly.

Reviewed in my blog: https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2016/07/04/glenmorangie-companta/



Would I buy this: Yes

At ?144.95 per bottle?



So I see: 

http://www.uvinum.co.uk/whisky/glenmorangie-companta

http://www.moethennessy-selection.co.uk/en-GB/glenmorangie-companta/

(I only checked on Amazon before)

I've only started drinking whisky. What do people normally pay?

I usually spend about ?30 to ?50 per bottle.



Part of the malted barley for this has been heavily roasted, to bring out deep, rich, chocolatey notes. 

46%. NAS.

Thanks to /u/tintin777 for the sample.

Nose- Powdered dark chocolate, coffee, toasted black bread, toasted nuts, milk stout beer, honey though it?s definitely in the background, maybe a touch of black pepper - the spice notes are quite mild with this one. Really interesting and unique ? the heavily roasted barley here has quite an impact.

Taste - Coffee, milk stout beer, dark chocolate again, hazelnuts, honey, maybe a little vanilla too. The dark chocolate and coffee flavors aren?t too heavy or overwhelming though, as they seem to be riding on top of the more gentle, typical Glenmorangie notes, although those are in the distant background. Moderate body, with a smooth, borderline watery feel to it. 

Finish - The spices finally show up to the party here ? getting nutmeg, black pepper, and maybe some cinnamon, with some drying coffee and dark chocolate notes. Only the spice notes stick around for an appreciable length of time, however.

Well this one is certainly unique ? it has a lot of ?dark? flavors in ways that are different from heavy aging in Oloroso casks. This one has some of the same things going on, but doesn?t have the fruity notes sherried Scotch does. Pleasant to drink, and it does well as far as being unique, but I don?t think I can justify paying $200 for this. Despite being unique, I still find this to be a bit boring and one-dimensional, actually.

86/100



Hey gang,

Back for another quick review today. This one is the Glenmorangie Signet. Have I reviewed any Glenmorangie here yet? No? Oh, well they've got the tallest stills in Scotland but nothing has ever really interested me that much to try or buy many of them. Apart from the 12yo Portwood finish, which is lovely stuff I got on a deal.

So what's the deal with this Signet thing? It's a bit different and I'd heard good things from various sources. It's at a higher strength, partly Sherry matured (I think) and part of the whisky is made from chocolate malt (normally reserved for brewing, not distilling). However, it's also NAS, fancifully packaged and has a higher price tag, so let's proceed with caution.

?

Glenmorangie Signet 46%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Really very sweet. Marzipan, almond, cherry Bakewell tart. What I would describe as 'sticky sweet.'

Taste: Very soft arrival, light with marzipan and chocolate, expensive truffle chocolates, slightly earthy.

Finish: Medium length. Loads of chocolate, dark chocolate and chocolate truffles.

Don't know if my brain has unconsciously processed the chocolate malt info and made my find more chocolate but this is a pretty delicious whisky. For the price though, I think I'd be disappointed if I'd bought a bottle.

77/100

?

Thanks for reading! More coming up.



Review #225

Blog Link: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/GlenmoSig

Network Average: 75.9

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



Don't know if my brain has unconsciously processed the chocolate malt info and made my find more chocolate

I tasted this one soon after it came out, with no advance info.  I was blown away by the chocolate notes - combined with the sweetness, it seemed like a chocolate liqueur!

Personally, I have a hard time ranking this one. While it is distinctive and has evident quality, it's not something I'm actually all that interested in drinking.  So I personally give it a bit of lower relative  score (ie just a bit above average).  But it would make an outstanding Christmas dram!

Thanks for the review.



I've heard that this deteriorates extremely fast in the bottle, which is a shame.

Good, honest review!



In my experience, that's not true.

I've had one for 2 years, and it's still just as good.



Thanks to /u/devoz, /u/lasidar, /u/scotch_fanatic, and /u/allumina for samples. And me for buying others.

Me is pretty great. Can't name things though.

So based on some of my last multi-reviews, I can't call this a vertical. It's vertical-ish, but not really a vertical. Also isn't a horizontal either.

Diagnonal sounds dumb. No, this is a Cluster Fuck (patent pending) of reviews.

What's a Cluster Fuck? Well that's when a disorganized group of people have sexual relations with one another in a chaotic fashion. So without proper organization or a project manager.

So remember: Always bring a Project Manager to your orgies.

Glad we all learned something. And that's about all for today.

Wait.

I was doing something, wasn't I?

Oh, yeah, Scotch reviews. Sometimes I get ahead of myself (see Cluster Fuck above).

Glenmorangie brings out a lot of different whiskies, finished, no finished, in odd casks, and what not. The company's first records are from a farm in 1703. Now they have 6% of the single malt whisky stock.

That's a lot. Let's see how these 6 disorganized whiskies (disorganized in that they don't follow a pattern to be together, not in how they are made) measure up.

Region: Highland

I showed up to school the year after our Drama club started off. In some ways, I was able to be there for it's second Golden Age, seeing two major festivals hosted, multiple awards (of which I won some), and great times had by all.

Before I showed up, they had fought tooth and nail, emptying out pockets of change and collecting any money to have simple sets, all while seeing massive musicals win ahead of them.

Years after I left, the drama club swelled, and my old High School became an Art School. Yet there weren't any awards, festivals, or anything of the like.

What does this have to do with whisky? Well, in 2014, Glenmorangie brought out the Ealanta, an amazing whisky that later was named whisky of the year.

The next year they brought out Glenmorangie Companta. Finished in 60% Burgundy wine casks from Clos de Tart and 40% Rh?ne Valley casks that previously held Rasteau, this could be amazing, yet it's in the shadow of Ealanta, which I loved (like many others).

Yet just because we may have missed the first great age doesn't mean this one will be bad. It could be bad, of course, regardless of how good or bad the previous year was.

So let's see how this tastes, independent of the past.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 46%

Nose: Strawberry jam, peach, caramel, ginger, allspice, orange

Reminds me of a marmalade/jam mixture, yet there's these great spices that are so prolific this time of year.

And yes, my Uggs look great with my Yoga pants, thank you very much.

Taste: Pepper, cherry, ginger, lemon, cherry, pepper, candied yam

Bit hot at first, yet it works with the cherry, and... I wrote cherry twice, didn't I? Well there's a lot of cherry.

It's not like a sherry bomb. Close, however it's lighter and the earth is more developed.

Finish: Orange, cocoa, lime, gingersnaps, oak, sulfur

Very poor finish overall, sadly. Where as the taste and nose had interesting, if simple portions, the finish is brief and this sulphuric element seems to pull it down, like crabs in a bucket, or lacking a great writer.

If I may drop my humble-brag.

Conclusion: So this has an interesting, nice autumn nose, followed by a unique, well balanced taste, and then a let down of a finish.

Which is too bad, really. I'm not going to give this too low of marks. Yeah, the finish isn't great. It's not bad either. I think it could have been better at 48%.

As for comparing it to the Ealanta? Not really fair, but it's going to happen. I'd say that maybe next time they should avoid releasing a NAS whisky, regardless of finish, a year after releasing a 19 year whisky.

81/100

Blocking out part of understanding is an important step in admitting you're full of shit.

Oh, I don't know you well; however I do know that we, all of us, are full of shit at some point.

So after reviewing Glenmorangie 18 as part of a mystery dram many years ago, I swapped for another sample.

Why? Because I'm a godamn masochist.

Also I wanted to try it again. I was older, more set in my ways, and with less hair on my head. I should be able to try it.

Granted I didn't know that it was aged for 15 years in ex-bourbon casks and 3 years in ex-oloroso casks. That didn't matter.

I had to try it again. For my own sake.

So, let's see how this dram tasted when I knew what it was, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 43%

Colour: 10YR 6/8

Nose: Mango, lemon, caramel, ginger, vanilla, earth, moss

Very odd mixture here. Part of it is really sweet, with lots of vanilla and caramels. The other part is very earthy.

Very sweet nose. Not surprising from Glenmorangie, which I find sweet by itself.

Taste: Burn/chili, butterscotch, lemon, cashew, floral, clay, oily

The initial burn is pretty rough. Rough like driving down a winter road in skivvies on a motorbike in Maine.

That's pretty rough. But great views, at least.

Once the burn subsides, there's a lot of floral and earth/oily elements. Takes some getting used to, and as someone who isn't the biggest fan of too much earth, it's kinda rough still.

Finish: Gravel, orange, floral, chilis, ginger, basil

Gravel is not something I like to drink. Let's be clear there. I used to make cement, and I know the taste of dirt though, and this is gravel like.

The other flavours are nice and blend well. Yet the gravel remains, haunting me.

Conclusion: I think I complain a little too much about this dram. Let's take a step back.

It's interesting, has some different flavours, develops well, and isn't as overly sweet as it could be.

That said, there's too much burn and too much earth. Plain and simple, some aspects just don't work, so while I rate it well enough, I'd say there's better drams for your dollar.

79/100

This is my Ferrari. I love driving around in it.

But what I'm really proud of? All these whisky reviews. They made me sharp. Who I am.

And that's what I'd say if I too was a douche canoe.

Unfortunately I don't have the money of said female cleaning agent water transportation tool. Otherwise I could have purchased a bottle of Glenmorangie Signet.

Perhaps that's for the best though. I'd have given into buying this Scotch made with more chocolate malt than normal, that some of it was aged in virgin oak, and I'd assume that was amazing.

Wait... I am sounding like a different vaginal boat now...

Okay, so if I had the money, maybe I'd give into this expensive NAS whisky. Maybe I wouldn't. That doesn't really matter.

What matters is how it tastes. And we should see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: 5YR 3/8

Nose: Currant, pear, rhubarb tarts, rubber, allspice, plums, peat moss

A lot of red fruits in this. And rubber. Which is kinda odd.

Wait, is my Ferrari on fire?

Oh well, it was made of rubber.

Anyway, there's a lot of dark fruits that change as time goes on. The earth of the peat moss is well placed here too.

Taste: Papaya, mint, ginger, apple, strawberry, cocoa

If I was a betting man, I'd say this had sherry influence. And that's why I don't bet.

Granted my Ferrari's on fire, so you may want to disregard that.

It's all a little bit jumbled. Kinda like a test for a dessert that didn't quite work.

Finish: Smoke, mushroom, ginger, pepper, rubber

Smoke is nice, yet it turns to rubber, and I'd make the car joke again, but no one believes that a guy who likes whisky this much has money for an expensive car he can only drive 6 months of the year.

It's simple at the end. I don't hate it, but I wanted something more.

Conclusion: Good, if not too complex nose, jumbled taste, and a finish that smells like a rubber fire.

I said a RUBBER FIRE!

I was hoping for something interesting, and I got that. Is interesting always good? Not really. I think they can do better.

77/100



Reviewing what you wrote before is interesting. Maybe you made too many dick jokes. Or maybe you accused everyone of being full of shit.

Or maybe something could have been better.

When I first reviewed Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban, I was very happy. Why? Because I wasn't in a local shooting that just happened a few blocks away from me.

That's a big deal here in Canada, trust me.

Also I was on one of my wedding anniversaries. I had amazing Chinese food (which is rare to find), I was going to get lucky in a different bed, and I wasn't being shot at.

Let me be clear: I like NOT being shot at.

So perhaps I was hasty in trying this port finished whisky. And given this night there isn't a shooting, and I'm just relaxing, let's see how I really feel about this dram.

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: 2.5R 3/8

Nose: Plum, cocoa, floral, peach, grapefruit, light caramel

There's this deep, floral and plum filled caramel dram. It's really deep, and tasty.

Like that one girl you could never hit the end of. Or the start (deep, I know).

Taste: Plum, caramel, ginger, butter, cereal, cinnamon, birch

So.. yeah, I'm one of the bitter brothers, let's get that out of the way.

And I like this dram. A lot. It's dark fruit, deep flavour, and nice cereal meld really nicely.

However... there's this birch sap flavour

Finish: Cinnamon, alcohol, chocolate, floral, nectarine, honey

Bit harsh on the end. Don't get me wrong; I like the other notes. Chocolate? I'm fat, of course. Honey? I'm the grandson of a beekeeper, I grew up on it. But raw alcohol? Not helping.

Doesn't really clear either. Too bad. Maybe it needed more time in the pipes?

Conclusion: Alright, I've come to two conclusions: I rated this too low the first time, and I thought of it too highly this whole time.

How does that work? Well you review over 500 whiskies and remember everything just right. Jerk.

So, it is quite good. They've pulled together an amazing nose and a great taste in 12 short years. That's pretty amazing.

And the finish is almost there. There's issues, sure, but I'd still go for this rather than other Glenmorangie's, and on an even more positive note, I think Glenmorangie has balanced port flavours really well in comparison to other drams I've had.

82/100

/u/zillah1985 has his search for Pappy 23. I... didn't.

Don't get me wrong; I want to try it at some point. And I loved his post. However it's not the toy I was looking for.

You see, most kids enjoy getting that one toy, and put it away. And those kids are healthy, live great lives, and enjoy themselves. They move on.

I didn't. I needed to collect things. Have full sets. I was like a mule with a complete kitchen set. No idea what to do with it yet proud to have it.

I played a lot of Magic: The Gathering. Trading was my favourite part.

Then I moved onto whisky. Started with some of the easy stuff. You know, like trying the simple ones, like those from Glenmorangie. Not simple in complexity; more so just out there. You could find the Original and the three finished ones anywhere.

Except I couldn't find Glenmorangie Lasanta. And that's... frustrating to me. I'm not OCD; that infers I can't leave my house. Obsessed? Nope, haven't skinned someone's face and worn it on my crouch while calling out to Freya to bless the crops.

No, I'm driven. I can't really drop things I collect. And it typically works. In this case it took a few years, and here we are. I can now try this dram, which has been finished in both oloroso and PX sherry casks for 2 years.

Let's see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: 2.5YR 4/8

Nose: Raspberry, mango, banana, coffee, cassia buds, juniper, watermelon

Big fruit tastes, and something that I haven't smelled in awhile. Like a Mox Diamond.

Well, I haven't smelled that because I stopped playing Magic, it doesn't smell, and I lost 3 of them, sadly.

No, more of the coffee and banana notes. Really tasty. And it pairs well with an almost gin smell. Love the nose on this.

Taste: Coffee, rhubarb, strawberry, anise, oily, banana

Holy shit I miss coffee. I didn't collect coffee (that's a segue). No, I just enjoyed it when it was well made. And now I can't have it.

That said, while I liked tasting it again without that burnt shit taste from decaf, the coffee doesn't really fit here. It's not balancing it out like it should, and it's showing up like a Yugi-oh player to a Magic tournament.

Finish: Earth, coffee, chilis, rosemary, green melon

And here it comes again. The earth at the end, the unbalanced notes feel like a shitty rare in a pack of decent uncommons.

Or rather: I wish it met the nose.

Conclusion: I'm happy to have had this. And I'd even consider drinking it again. Is it amazing? No. However it's tasty. The finish ends not so great, which sucks, but that's not something to worry about.

I finished part of my collection. And that makes me feel happy. I like coffee too, so I'm adding some bonus points. Because I'm mad with power.

81/100

I have something to admit: I have trouble in the Southern US.

Why? Well I was brought up in Canada, where we're taught the South is really racist and poor and live in warm places.

I've since met a lot of great people from the South. That said, it's hard to move away from that believe brought on by popular culture.

So when I hear about Artisan Casks from the Ozarks of Missouri, I have to say I'm not 100% sold. I'm barely 50% sold.

And that's really stupid. Because the wood isn't affected by the past. And the USA has some pretty cool wood producing, and warm weather gives us cool wood.

Enter Glenmorangie Astar, the second in Glenmorangie's series of Artisan cask series. Aged in wood made from wood from the Ozark mountains.

What does that mean though? Well first off I'm a jingoist and I need to work on that.

Also it means that this is... ex-bourbon casks? Or maybe virgin casks? I don't really know. Is it American oak? A variant of it?

Who knows. What I do know is it's cask strength. And interesting. So I'll put aside my pathetic fallacies that I know are false, and see how it tastes.

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Abv: 57.1%

Colour: 2.5Y 8/6

Nose: Lemon, grapefruit, honey, ginger, butter, cashew, caramel muffin, chocolate rum sauce

This.. this is really, really complex. Super complex. If I smelled this while walking into a bakery, I'd buy too much and gain more weight.

Taste: Sugar cookies, lemon curd, peanut oil, pepper, herbal, pineapple

I recently tried Tim Horton's filled cookies. The ones I thought I'd like? Hated. The one I wasn't sure about? A lemon sugar cookie filled with raspberry goo. Tasty, tasty good.

This reminds me of that cookie, that I loved so much.

Finish: Ginger, peanut brittle, Sprite, oak, moss, anise, cereal, vanilla, pine, cardamon

Holy shit, a finish that doesn't let me down!

Seriously though, this is more of the same, yet there's a pine note that I assume is from virgin oak. I don't love it, but that's a minor point.

Conclusion: This is a really well done dram. I've had a few Glenmorangie's at cask strength, and this did not disappoint. At all. This is really, really tasty. It has unique notes throughout.

Basically I didn't rate this higher because it didn't end up giving me distinct memories. And 1 point off for the harsh pine. However I'd think twice before judging the South again OR Artisan casks, as this was worth it.

84/100

Scotch reviews #360-365, Highland reviews #65-70, Whisky Network reviews #550-555

1001 Whiskies to taste before you die reviews #254-256

101 Whiskies to try before you die review

Other Glenmorangie Reviews:

Glenmorangie 10 year 100 proof

Glenmorangie 18

Glenmorangie 21 year old 1981/2002 Sauternes Finish

Glenmorangie Ealanta Private Edition 1993-2012

Glenmorangie Nectar D'Or

Glenmorangie Original 10 year

Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban

Website of all of my Reviews



hillbillies != southern

Though, there are hillbillies in the south. 



You see, most kids enjoy getting that one toy, and put it away. And those kids are healthy, live great lives, and enjoy themselves. They move on.
I didn't. I needed to collect things. Have full sets. I was like a mule with a complete kitchen set. No idea what to do with it yet proud to have it.
I played a lot of Magic: The Gathering. Trading was my favourite part.
Then I moved onto whisky. Started with some of the easy stuff. You know, like trying the simple ones, like those from Glenmorangie. Not simple in complexity; more so just out there. You could find the Original and the three finished ones anywhere.

It is quite interesting how a lot of us (cough geeks n nerds cough) have transferred one collection obsession from the past to a new alcoholic one in the future.  

Thanks for the reviews. I haven't had Glenmo in awhile. I might try it again sometime. 



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.64   

Standard Deviation = 10.07  

Skewness = -2.66876 

Kurtosis = 10.72440 

Median = 80 

IQR = 9



Going to agree that Astar and Companta are the best of the bunch here. 

Also, does every one of your conclusions have "interesting" in it? That's interesting.