Hi Scotchit, it's taken me a little longer to get this first review out as I was hoping that it was my inexperience that was making me think this whisky was pretty flat and disappointing, but it's now been about 8 months since I got back into whisky and I feel that it is time to break it down.

5/10 - My boss bought me a half sized bottle for Christmas, and although it's not unpleasant, unless there is no other whisky in the house I would not generally choose it. Price at writing is ?22.50 for a standard bottle, which is not bad at all, but I keep finding bottles on sale in the UK for ?22-25 which are much better (and Black Bottle at ?14 is much cheaper and has far more character) so faced with it's competition it falls short.



nice first review. I've had this one a couple times and also found it a bit boring, but a pleasant drink. 

thanks for joining in the fun... now you get flair! but first, make sure you archive your review using the sidebar submission form and then let me know what you want your flair to say.



?Reserve.? Har. There's something downright Orwellian about telling us this stuff is being held on reserve somewhere?anywhere?when the reality is that this was a product borne of necessity. As most of you know, it became harder to reserve aged Glenlivet for the 12-year expression, so in some unlucky parts of the world, the twelve was knocked over the head and pulled off the market in favor of the FR. Which, at least here in America, is younger, but not cheaper, nor higher-proofed. What a bargain!

Now, admittedly, there's a lot of NAS scotch I enjoy, and youth can sometimes be an asset. Additionally, it's not like Glenlivet 12 is a stunner of stunners, so it seems like for an outfit as big as Glenlivet, creating a viable replacement should be a pretty easy bar to jump over. Pity it fails in such spectacular fashion.

In a word, this stuff is flat. After a disappointing, weak arrival, the peat literally oozes forward on the development and turns everything into a watery ashtray. I really don't want to sound hyperbolic, but I shit you not: drinking the Founder's Reserve left me with the sensation that I had just licked a paper towel. The lack of flavor and burlap-esque mustiness of the peat sucked all of the moisture out of my mouth. 
The distillery's tasting notes suggest a "creamy sweetness," but that was a far cry from my experience with it. For me, it's as hard of a pass as anything I can think of, made all the more offensive by the price and how Glenlivet hopes to position the bottle as being generally equivalent to the 12.

Nose: Admittedly decent. Apricot melds with a little bit of meaty brisket. Were it only to deliver any of this!

Taste: Watery and indistinct, lacking in either fruit or cream.

Finish:  Ash. The peat isn't that strong, but it doesn't have anything to fight with and ends up winning over everything else by default. Some wood sourness.

Misc: - 40% ABV, NAS. Its only reason to exist is because a better product seems unsustainable in the long-run.

Price: - $30

My rating: - 0 / 3 stars

If you put a gun to my head and said, ?Rate this out of 100:?  66/100 



I forgot to take a picture of the actual thing so you get a stock photo. Ya welcome.

Glenlivet 15

Rested for 15 minutes in a Glencairn 

Nose: Citrus, grain, cream, lemon, white sugar, green apple small hints of raisin

Mouth: Oily,thin, soft, malt, white sugar, light woody taste

Finish: Medium, tannins, lime and some other citrus I couldn?t put my tounge on

84/100

Glenlivet 18

Rested for 20 in a Glencairn

Nose: Oak, Spice, red berry, dry herb or grass, raisin, apple, floral, astringent

Mouth: wood, spice, soft, floral, dry herb, raisin, cream

Finish: Short, spice, oak - falls off pretty fast

80/100

Glenlivet Founder?s Reserve

Nose: Sweet malt, cocoa, rock candy, white sugar, kind of bleh

Mouth: Thin, creamy, caramel, vanilla

Finish:Short, vanilla nothing really stands out

75/100

Conclusion: I really enjoyed running through a single distilleries mini?s. It gave me a good look into what can be produced, the similarities and the differences. I don?t know as much about scotch and I?ve dismissed distilleries in the past due to not liking a single dram, would anyone recommend buying a bunch of sampler packs to be able to try the main lineups, are they worth it?



would anyone recommend buying a bunch of sampler packs to be able to try the main lineups, are they worth it?

I bought the Glenfiddich (12,15,18), Glenmorangie (10, lasanta, quinta rosa, d'or), Tomatin, and Balvenie samplers.  It has to be some of the best money spent on scotch so far b/c it gives me an idea of what I like and don't like without having to buy a large expensive bottle.  It may also make sense to check out a local scotch bar and do flights of scotch.



Info: The last bottle of Glenlivet 12 I bought came with a mini of the Founders Reserve and 15, I picked up the 18 year in a swap so why not review all 3. 

Glenlivet Founders Reserve

Whiskey Network Review #29  r/Scotch Review #17

Appearance: Pale gold

Nose: Pineapple, Riesling wine, clementine, vanilla

Taste: Orange, apple, Riesling, pear 

Finish: Sweet white wine

Conclusion: There is no excuse for this to exist, a full bottle is more expensive than the 12 and nowhere as good. It's watery and as about as flavorless as you can get. It's not off putting but totally forgettable.

Rating: D

Glenlivet 15 Year

Whiskey Network Review #30  r/Scotch Review #18

Appearance: Burnished

Nose: Caramel apple, pear, fig, baking spice, Twizlers

Taste: Baked apples, fig, brown sugar, baking spice, citrus, butterscotch

Finish: Caramel and citrus

Conclusion: I would say this is a step up from the 12 year in flavor profile, my gripe is that it's weak thus tastes a little too watered down, bottle this at 45 or higher and we'd have something. I don't know that I would buy a bottle at $74 as the 18 year old isn't that much more.

Rating: B-

Glenlivet 18 Year, Sample provided by u/medicfourlife

Whiskey Network Review #31  r/Scotch Review #19

Appearance: Russet

Nose: Caramel apple, baking spice, vanilla, ripe red fruit, orange peel

Taste: Caramel, raisin, dark stone fruit, almond, orange peel, apple, honey

Finish: Raisin, citrus, apple peel

Conclusion: The 18 and 15 share a lot of similarities but the 18 is much bolder by comparison. The flavors are richer and it gets a slight bump to 43%. By far the best out of the core range, its currently on sale near me and I think I will probably pick up a bottle.

Rating: B+

Conclusion: Pretty much what you would expect, the NAS is garbage and it's a joke being priced over the 12. The 12 is ok and affordable, the 15 is a little bit of an upgrade over the 12 but still fairly weak, and the 18 year old is the best out of the bunch and a pretty decent value for an 18 year old. 

A+:  Perfection, how do I replace my blood with this! (95-100/100)

A: Damn good, would love to always keep a bottle of this laying around at all times if I could afford to. (90-95/100)

B: I like it, would buy the occasional bottle, or order the occasional glass, but there are others I prefer more. (80-89/100)

C: Unremarkable but drinkable, right in the middle of the bell curve. (70-79/100)

D: Mixer, I don?t want to drink it straight up. (60-69/100)

F: Nope, nope, nope (59-0/100)



Very much in line with my own thoughts. I don't mind NAS bottles by default, but the Reserve is garbage; I rank it as the worst bottle I've ever purchased for that kind of price. It's particularly disappointing considering the 12 it replaced was decent and I assumed it would be a like-for-like trade.  

The 18, however, is really quite nice and one of my go-to bottles. 



Disclaimer: These tastings were done in quick succession over the course of about 2 hours, so I?m sorry the notes aren?t that detailed.  

?

The Glenlivet Founders Reserve 1824 (Single Malt, Speyside, 40% ABV, NAS)  

Price:  $58  

Tasted:  At a Pernod Ricard/Chivas Bros. tasting alongside several other entries from their portfolio.  

Colour:  Amber -1  

Nose:  Raisins, soft fruit, definite European oak influence, Belgian waffles, pancake syrup (not real maple). Adding water leads to notes of honey, hazelnuts and pralines.  

Palate:  Barley malt, sugar cookies, raisins, spices?nutmeg, vanilla, cloves. The addition of water reveals notes of honey and green apple, and lessens the raisin/grape notes.  

Finish:  Hazelnuts, malt, grape must. It?s not a long finish and water doesn?t change it.  

Packaging/Design:  I don?t love the colour scheme, but it?s designed to make it stand out on a back bar or shelf, what with the powder blue label.  

Conclusion:  It?s a decent beginner?s malt or simple dram to enjoy on ice in the summer. Not really my bag, but not bad. I prefer the 12-year-old. The brand rep mentioned that some of the flavours in this indicate that it must be 7.5 years of age on average, but? yeah. I?d take that with a grain of salt.

72/100.  

?

The Glenlivet 15 ? French Oak Reserve (Single Malt, Speyside, 40% ABV, 15 Years Old)  

Price:  $88  

Tasted:  At a Pernod Ricard/Chivas Bros. tasting alongside several other entries in their portfolio.  

Colour:  Amber +1  

Nose:  Spice melange, oak, orange oil, resin, thyme, maple syrup, plenty of rich, sweet fruitiness as well.  

Palate:  Very nice mouthfeel, soft and sweet with spiced honey, hazelnuts, pralines, orange oil, toffee & some strong oak tannins and influence.  

Finish:  Sweet, spiced honey, hazelnuts, cedar, resin, caramel, and oak. Medium length, quite pleasant.  

Packaging/Design:  I?ll be honest enough to say I don?t love the packaging of The Glenlivet lineup. This one isn?t bad, but it doesn?t strike my fancy either.  

Conclusion:  Much more to my palate than the 1824 Founders Reserve. Excellent winter dram if you?re not craving smokiness or peat influence.  

81/100.

?

The Glenlivet 18 (re-review) (Single Malt, Speyside, 43% ABV, 18 Years Old)  

Price:  $150  

Tasted:  At a Pernod Ricard/Chivas Bros. tasting alongside several other entries in their portfolio.

Colour:  Amber +2  

Nose:  Oloroso sherry influence makes itself immediately known?nuttiness, syrupiness, oak-derived smokiness, warming spices, cinnamon, nutmeg, vanilla and walnuts.  

Palate:  Nutty, thick mouthfeel, slight smokiness from the oak, plenty of tannins and spice. The honey from the younger entrants in the lineup has matured into something more like toffee or molasses.  

Finish:  Smoke, oak, nutmeg, raisins, spices intermingle with wood influence. It?s long, it?s pleasant, it?s warming. Great for cold weather.  

Packaging/Design:  This is where their packaging starts to look a bit more appealing to me. Maybe that?s just because I know there?s quality whisky within.  

Conclusion:  A more serious and challenging version of the 15. I?m not sure if the full-sized bottle just tastes better, but this one scores higher than the sample-sized bottle I tried a year ago. Maybe it?s had more time to breathe.  

85/100.  

?

The Glenlivet Nadurra First Fill Selection (Single Malt, Speyside, 60.4% ABV, NCF, NAS)  

Price:  $103  

Tasted:  At a Pernod Ricard/Chivas Bros tasting alongside several other entries in their portfolio.  

Colour:  Amber -3  

Nose:  Sweet, unctuous, green apple, spiced honey, lemon, plenty of ethanol.  

Palate:  Sour apple, sweet honey, heather, white pepper, cedar sawdust, vanilla, lime.  

Finish:  Honey, white pepper, apple, bourbon cask influence exerts itself with a smoke/honey flavour and vanilla. Long finish.  

Packaging/Design:  Definitely seems like natural colour. I quite like the Nadurra label actually.  

Conclusion:  Lovely stuff! Great summer dram. It?s wonderful that they bottle this stuff at such a high strength, seeing as they don?t sell much to independent bottlers. Would be nice to have the age statement back on it, but maybe with a youthful/powerful dram like this age doesn?t matter so much.  

85/100.  

?

Aberlour 12 Double Cask Matured (Single Malt, Speyside, 40% ABV, 12 Years Old)  

Price:  $75  

Tasted:  At a Pernod Ricard/Chivas Bros. tasting alongside several other entries in their portfolio.  

Colour:  Amber +2  

Nose:  Milk chocolate, malt, malted chocolate, caramelized honey, a general ruminess, sweet nectarines.  

Palate:  Spiced, lots of oak influence, smoke, tannins, red fruit, malt, a hint of cocoa.  

Finish:  Spices, hazelnuts, rum-filled chocolates, rum balls pralines. This reminds me of a souped-up Chivas.  

Packaging/Design:  It?s a wee squat li?l bottle with a large cork. I don?t love it. I feel like I?m being overly harsh on packaging today.  

Conclusion:  Lovely malt and a wonderful intro to ex-sherry/European oak cask influence. Oddly chocolatey. Reminds me of Chivas Regal, but minus the ? blendy bits. I do like it.  (This is actually the second time I?ve had this whisky, each of which were at tastings or events. This time I had a chance to write down some notes and actually enjoy it a bit.)

83/100.

?

Aberlour A?bunadh Batch 54 (Single Malt, Speyside, 60.7% ABV, NCF, NAS)  

Price:  $135  

Tasted:  At a Pernod Ricard/Chivas Bros. tasting alongside several other entries in their portfolio.  

Colour:  Amber +3  

Nose:  Smoked chocolate, salted caramel, grape must, cedar, sawdust, barley syrup, red Chateauneuf-du-Pape.  

Palate:  Super spiced, very grapey?grape influence for days. Smoke, chocolate, salted caramel, sweet green tea/matcha, oak tannins and resin.  

Finish:  Sweet caramel, smoke, chocolate, spices, oak fibres, fresh ream of printer paper, sawdust.  

Packaging/Design:  I like the labels from batch 20-30 more.  

Conclusion:  Wonderful stuff, plenty of cask influence, though I get more red wine than sherry. Would gladly receive a bottle of this as a gift, but I?m not sure I?d buy it. Too much out there to try!  

86/100.  

?

Scapa Skiren (Single Malt, Islands, 40% ABV, NAS)  

Price:  Not available in my market until October, so.. I don?t know.  

Tasted:  At a Pernod Ricard/Chivas Bros. tasting alongside several other entries in their portfolio.  

Colour:  Amber +1  

Nose:  Sweet rosemary/thyme, lavender, heather, plastic bucket, pecans, polyester fabric, salt, sand, earth.  

Palate:  Grappa/Marc/Pomace brandy. Grape must, stems, vegetal and earthy. Plastic bucket, oak tannins and spices, sawdust and honey. Very strange.  

Finish:  Honey, oak tannins, spice, grape stems and pomace brandy. Floral notes of lavender and heather appear after a while as well. Medium length.  

Packaging/Design:  I like the boat, I don?t mind the label, the box is quite pretty. I like it.  

Conclusion:  A middle-of-the-road mouthfeel, but very interesting flavour. Very Pernod Ricard/Chivas. Fits their house style well, but different enough to stand out from the rest of their lineup. Pomace notes are lovely, and somehow work with the plastic-y/bucket-y flavours. Opens up and gets very sweet with time, with some of the vegetal notes dying down after a while. I like it.  

84/100.



I tasted the Nadurra and A'bunadh both neat, and with various amounts of water added to get the tasting notes I posted. If I were to drink them at home I'd probably add an amount of water so as to get the ABV into the mid-50s, as that's where I find there's a definite bevy of flavours, but also the warming kick of a high-proof dram.

I have an ABV calculator for that purpose, but really trial and error are the best way to find out how you enjoy the whisky most. There's nothing wrong with adding a splash of water to open up the dram.

Try adding a few drops at a time until you find more flavours, and stop when you're enjoying it more perhaps?



ABV calculator

I did keep adding drops of water, I think they were fairly diluted by the end but I may be wrong. My tap water is pretty bad that could have had an effect too, I think I'll try again with bottled water. 



~~~~

Like for many, the Glenlivet 12yo was the first single malt Scotch that I would routinely order in a bar, neat. It was a considerable step up from the basic whisky blends I had tried (both domestic and international), and had a relatively gentle and inoffensive flavour profile.

Founder's Reserve is a slightly cheaper new NAS from Glenlivet, and one that immediately replaced the 12yo in some smaller and emerging markets.  While the two expressions are currently both still available here in Canada, that may be changing ? the expectation is that the Founder's Reserve will replace the 12yo in most markets eventually.

Of course, most of us soon move on from these relatively inexpensive single malts, searching for wider flavour experience.  But given their ubiquity, I thought it was worth providing a head-to-head comparison.

Glenlivet 12yo

Source: Sampled in an Air Canada lounge, re-tasted from an open 750mL bottle received as a gift. Currently ~$57 CAD for a 750mL bottle at the LCBO

ABV: 40.0%. 

Colour:  Classic apple juice

Nose:   Slightly sweet, with a touch of honey, and light fruits like apple and pineapple (a distinctive Glenlivet trait). Definite vanilla. Slightly floral, but I can't identify anything specific. Slight solvent note, but not offensive.

Palate:  Sweet up front, with the vanilla turning more to caramel now. The apple remains prominent, but also getting some citrus - with a touch of bitterness. Remains light and relatively sweet overall, and not very complex. Somewhat watery mouthfeel.

Finish:  Moderate finish for this class - a bit longer than I would have expected from its light taste, but still relatively short overall.  That sweet apple remains the key note, although a bit of bitterness also lingers. 

As I remember it ? the Glenlivet 12yo is a light and inoffensive whisky.

Score:  81 / 100 

Glenlivet Founder's Reserve

Source::  Sampled in an Air Canada lounge. Currently ~$53 CAD for a 750mL bottle at the LCBO

ABV: 40.0%

Colour:  More orangey than the 12yo (E150 caramel added?)

Nose:   My core notes read the same - slightly sweet, light fruits like apple, slightly floral. But there is more going on here, with a malty characteristic now. There is also an almost maritime air, with hints of salty chocolate (i.e., seems like it could be just a tiny touch sherried). Definitely a more complex nose than the 12yo. Unfortunately, the solvent characteristic is also more noticeable (glue in particular).

Palate:  Still sweet and fruity, and I find some maltiness is coming up now as well. Classic apple and honey are still there, but with faint chocolate notes, and something slightly spicy (pepper?). Still light and watery overall. Improves on multiple sips.

Finish:  As before, medium length for its class (short overall for a Scotch). The various new notes (like chocolate) linger, as does a bit of caramel sweetness. Less fruity than the old 12yo.

The Founder's Reserve is both more and less than the 12yo. It lacks the simple charm and elegance of light fruit-driven 12yo, and brings in more complexity (likely from wider barrel blending). With that wider mix comes some additional off notes though, so it really is a mixed bag.

Score:  82 / 100 

For its extra complexity, I gave Founder's Reserve a marginally higher score. But I can really understand why individual reviewers vary so much in their relative opinions of these two (see my full review here for a discussion). But as long as Glenlivet keeps the current quality up (and the price down), I think the Founder's Reserve is a perfectly fine NAS replacement at this price point.

Personal lifetime scoring stats:  Mean score:  85.3, Standard Deviation: 4.9, Min score: 68, Max score: 96, Number scored: 111

Here are how these two whiskies compare in my WhiskyAnalysis Meta-Critic Database

Glenlivet 12yo: 8.03 ? 0.32 on 18 reviews 

Glenlivet Founder's Reserve: 7.95 ? 0.50 on 10 reviews



You were off to an early start with single malts, lol.  

Have to admit I hadn't thought of going back to this one for awhile now, but figured it would be interesting to compare again after all this time. And I did have a gifted bottle sitting around.



According to Glenlivet at the Spirit of Toronto, they aren't phasing out the 12 year in Canada. instead, the founder's reserve would be a high volume bottle for shots and cocktails that they are seriously pushing into bars. 

The founder's reserve is supposedly aged in Virgin/first fill/recharred casks, hence why it looks darker probably



Yes, I'm surprised they haven't phased out the 12yo here in Canada (as they did in some markets). Let's see how long that lasts.

They are definitely using a different mix of casks for this one - so colour could be natural, it's true.



I received this bottle as a gift from a friend in CA who was able to get it for dirt cheap. I have very little experience with Glenlivet oddly enough with the only one I previously have tried has been their now discontinued Nadurra 16. I am a bit skeptical of NAS Scotch, especially ones that are bottled at the bare minimum of 40%. I don't really have high hopes for this one, but hopefully I'm wrong.

Glenlivet Founder's Reserve / 40% ABV

Setup - Neat in a glencairn

Wallet Damage - May of 2017 / 750mL / ~$45 USD / (after WA state taxes of 20.5% + $3.77/liter)

Region/Type: Speyside

Filtration: YES?

Nose - Watered down honey, faint golden raisins, apple/pear cider.

Taste - Very light, floral watered down honey, lightly bitter oaked pear cider made with cores and peels.

Finish - Sweet lingers a bit along with a fruity bitterness that fades pretty quickly leaving a lightly sweet/sour pear cider effervescent tingle on the tongue.

Score - 72/100

Final Thoughts - Everything about this Scotch is very light and subtle. It's non offensive and honestly quite boring. Reminds me of eating fresh green apples and pears lightly drizzled with honey on a spring day. Nothing too complex but refreshing. This is best sipped neat or mixed into a lighter Scotch cocktail like an old fashioned sweetened with honey simple and maybe just orange or lavender bitters instead of angostura.

Whisk[e]y Network Review #174

NOTE - All reviews are done without factoring in price paid.

EDIT: Had the incorrect price listed



Glenlivet Founder's Reserve

Thanks to /u/slackerdude for the swap.  Compared next to a Glenlivet 12 for reference.

Nose: Lemon, apple, honeydew, cantaloupe, pineapple.

Palate: Lemon, apple, wheat, malt, bread, cereal.

Finish: Vanilla, honey.

This tastes exactly like I imagined? a younger, rawer, less flavourful version of the 12.  Perhaps a greater accent of certain fruit notes like the melon components but really a dangerously shitty offering for a distillery to have as a staple malt.  Glenlivet, I don't think you're listening, but if you are this is probably one of the worst standard offerings of any scotch whisky distillery out there.  Stick to the 12.  Thin and light to a fault.  An unsurprising 40% abv.

63/100

Other Glenlivet Reviews:

Glenlivet 12 - 71/100

Glenlivet 15 - 81/100

Glenlivet 16 Bourbon Cask Nadurra - 87/100

Glenlivet 18 - 80/100

Glenlivet Master Distiller's Reserve - 82/100



Thin and light to a fault.

Don't you mean smooth?



I really wouldn't go so far as calling this a shitty offering. Sure, it has no particularly strong finish, but I think it's a decent dram for an afternoon after work/school.
Especially considering the price, in my area at least, where you can get it for around 20?, or 28,80$.

I would give it at the least 75/100.



Hey! As you know the 12 yo Glenlivet is discontinued and replaced by a NAS one. But hey: it is named after the distillery founder George Smith, so it's packaged in Georgian blue! No? Eh...

The Glenlivet Founder's Reserve

Speyside, 40%

color: pale gold

nose: vinegar, green bananas, vanilla, toffee, tangerine, pears, lemon cake

taste: pears, apples, grass, green bananas, white almonds, vanilla, slightly metallic

finish: wood sorrels, pears, redcurrants, gooseberries, sour

Fresh and fruity. It is... err... ... ... sigh: noticeably young. I'm sorry, but it took time to properly sugarcoat that.

Watch out for your reputation, Glenlivet...

71/100



I tried this while sitting at a campfire, drinking out of plastic cups. I was quite surprised with the quality for as NAS expression and the price (just over 20?). We also had Glenmorangie 10YO around and I actually prefered Glenlivet as the youth gave that extra kick in my particular circumstance. So I am pleased with this expression for such occasions. Now, replacing the 12 with this is indeed foolish as the 12 was good for propper sipping on a budget, whereas the Fouders just isn't unless you are camping, drinking from a plastic cup. It should have been an addition to the range, not a substitution. 

The one new expression that I am looking forward to trying is the new Nadurra which is matured in ex-peated-barrels that the sales rep at Schiphol Airport told me about. The sherry Nadurra she let me try was OK in my opinion. But I am not a huge sherried whisky fan tbh...



Why? It was (and still is) a whisky you could (can) buy in supermarkets, nobody will pay more than you did for it in the future. It is a mass product. Open it, enjoy it.

Personal opinion: It's cooler to say I've tried a certain whisky than that I have a (unopened) bottle of it...



Hi everyone,

Got a large multi-review dump today! I realised just a minute ago, that I haven?t reviewed any Glenlivet on here, or Glenfiddich for that matter but we?ll move to them later maybe. So today I thought I?d share my thoughts on one of the worlds most recognised Scotch brands, The Glenlivet. 

The 12 is seen as a really good entry level and could well have been my first proper single malt, although it was actually Dufftown 12. The 18 can be really good value for money but generally I find Glenlivet an easy drinking whisky for the masses.

?

Glenlivet Founder's Reserve 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Young, fruity light esters- Lemon, apple juice, a little lime juice, light pastry note- Light strudel.

Taste: Very light arrival, lemon zest, lemon peel, lemon sherbet, apple juice, pear. A bit of pastry developing.

Finish: Short/medium length. Zesty lemon peel and sherbet, a little burnt plastic afterwards.

A mark or two lower than the Master Distiller's Reserve but very similar profile. As I said easy drinking for the masses, not bad, not great.

61/100

?

Glenlivet Master Distiller's Reserve 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Light and clean but a little watery. Instantly pear drops, lots of them, young spritely esters, light artificial apple, apple juice.

Taste: Spirity and fizzy with sour- Lemon sherbet, pear drops, apple fizz, melon, a little chocolate malt.

Finish: Short length. Apple and lemon fizz.

Young and estery but I prefer this to the 12yo.

63/100

?

Glenlivet 12 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Fruit, chocolate, flowery, vanilla, caramel, quite acidic.

Taste: Peaches and cream, vanilla, plums, bit of apple, drying malt. Flowery and herbal notes too.

Finish: Short length. Flowery with lavender and drying malt.

Tasted this years ago and haven?t gone back since. Really my benchmark for whisky I don?t like and don?t want to go back to. My fianc?e thought vomit on the nose... Possibly a bad bottle?

56/100

?

Glenlivet 15 French Oak Reserve 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Lots of light fruity pear and some apple. Stewed apple, loads of pear drops. Light wood but the pear is quite overpowering. Perfume note, rosewater, hard candy.

Taste: Very, very light. Perfumed and smooth, fruity suggestions of apple and creamy pear, maybe some apple pie and malt.

Finish: Short length. Slips away with a hint of perfumed spice.

Subtle influence from the new French oak, a very floral one.

66/100

?

Glenlivet 18 43%

Colour: E150a

Body: Medium

Nose: Bit of heat at first, oak, vanilla, toffee, apple, pear, grape, bit of maltiness, bit of spice- Cinnamon. Quite bourbon-y.

Water: More fruit- Lots more sherry influence- Soft raisins, some tannins, more floral- Petals and blossom. Some mint, a wisp of smoke? Lovely citrus notes develop- Lemon, lime, juicy oranges, breakfast tea.

Taste: Bit of rough heat, spice, maltiness and oak, constrained fruit- Oranges.

Water: No heat, loads more fruit- Oranges and apples. Honey, toffee, vanilla, spearmint, floral, spice developing. Quite balanced. More water- Some citrus.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Oak and spice fade quickly. With water: Balanced oak fades more slowly.

A drop of water improves this a LOT, really delicious nose. I managed to get this at a French supermarket for ?30 which is really good value for an 18yo.

72/100

?

Glenlivet 25 43%

Colour: Light Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Fresh fruity Sherry, vanilla, caramel, Bourbon.

Taste: Soft, very sweet Sherry, quite oaky, a little too oaky into the finish.

Finish: Medium/Long length. Bourbon style with oaky wood planks.

A little too oaky really, which is a shame as I was expecting this to be really good. Just had a look at Whisky Exchange, who say this has been finished in Sherry casks.

72/100

?

Well, that?s about it. All the Glenlivet?s I?ve tasted so far. To me, it?s not something I seek out, in fact it?s normally something I avoid. But keep in mind, I generally prefer heavy, intense whiskies rather than light ones. 

Glenfiddich up next, maybe in two parts.

Reviews #247-#252



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/glenlivetdump

Network Average: 75.7

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



Understanding your scoring system, I can't disagree with what you posted here. I've never found a Glenlivet that made me sit-up and take notice. More than any other single malt, Glenlivet personifies middle-of-the-road average. Only the 15 FO did I find even somewhat interesting. I also had a dram of the 12 (only malt available) at a restaurant while traveling two weeks ago that was pretty funky; I suspected poor storage and old tailings, but your notes make me think that maybe the 12 is having some Q/A issues

Frankly, as my "serve to guests" / mixer / mindless sipper budget single malt, I now keep the Glenmorangie 10 "Original" on my shelf. It's 38 bucks, easy going with a nice malt underpinning, but also aged in some pretty good ex-bourbon wood (much higher quality casks than whatever Glenlivet or Glenfiddich are using for their 12s).



Great review dump!

I haven't had the 25 year Glenlivet, yet, but the 21 year OB is one of my favorites.  Really seems to shine at that age.  It's not a flavor bomb, of course, but it has fantastic balance (IMO). 