Glenfiddich 21 Year Old Rum Cask - 40%ABV - Cask 27 - $134 last year 

Color - light amber

Nose - creme brulee, a hint of peat, leather

Taste - old oak, sweet cinnamon, vanilla, hints of sherry with more leather and a touch of ginger

Finish - very smooth, creamy chocolate with cayenne and a bit of smokiness

This is one of the few Scotches I've had that actually matched up to the distiller's tasting notes.  Basically, the only thing I didn't pick up was any banana.  This is very much a desert type Scotch.  In the glencairn, the peat on the nose is a little off-putting but when enjoyed from my favorite lowball glass, the peat practically disappears.

Being only at 40% really hurts this whisky.  I eventually added a bit of water to help open it up and control that peat in the nose but it is already so weak that just a few drops really hurt the overall impact, despite the peat being almost gone.

The more I drink of it, the less it shines for me.  I feel that the wood tastes a little tired whereas a year ago I didn't really notice things like that.  This is an extra matured bottling meaning it aged for 21 years in some sort of barrels before being finished for a few months in the rum casks.  I looked around for other info on where it spends those 21 years but did not find a reputable answer.  I waited that year because I wanted to get a little more experience under my belt before officially reviewing this one.

85/100

Note: I did not find Gran Reserva anywhere on the bottle or tube.  It looks like in America we are getting something a little different.



If you had $140 to blow and you had the choice of either the Glenfiddich 21 or a "refill" on the Balvenie Caribbean Cask and a bottle of something else new to try, which way would you go? I love the Balvenie 14, so I don't want to get the Glenfiddich 21 and be disappointed.

Thoughts?



I think the American one is actually a little different because of the trade embargo on Cuba. Don't know where I got this info to be honest, but I'm fairly sure the Gran Reserva is aged in Cuban rum casks so it makes sense. 

The leather and smoke really surprises me, maybe the US bottling is actually quite different. I picked up none of that in my bottle. I also got tons of banana from mine.



Nice review, this is probably one of my favourite malts. 
The reason you can't see gran reserva on that bottling is to do with the embargo as stated previously. When it was first released it was called the "Havana Reserve" and finished in Cuban rum casks, this caused issues with stateside sales, so they changed the name to "Gran Reserva", still no dice due to the casking. Then they released it as the 21 (pictured in op) and finished it in Jamaican rum casks. There is only a slight difference in taste between the different finishes, but would have to say the old Cuban is better.
The releases are the same worldwide, bottles available in US are the same as Scotland.
http://i.imgur.com/LKjli.jpg

P.s. not sure where you are getting the peat from, Glenfiddich don't use any peat in their malting process.



The final part of a series on Glenfiddich, and a bit of a treat for my 20th Scotchit malt review.

Nose:  Tart granny smith apple, vanilla sugars and vanilla extract, honey, sweet orange and orange pith, a slight berry note with a bit of almond, pecan, and glimpses of dry white wine.

Taste:  Smooth, soft, and delicate.  Honey sweetened butter, toffee, caramel cream, vanilla oak, and a light fruity note.  Incredibly balanced and uniform.  The fruits include sweet apple, banana, tangerine, and ripe melon.

Finish:  A tiny glimpse of smooth spice with lingering caramel, toffee and melon.  Fades dry.  Round and well-formed but not powerful.

Final notes:  The sharp edges that existed in the younger Glenfiddichs have vanished from this whisky.  This is just smooth and delicious from start to finish.  Quite light and a touch dessert-like.  It's been a while, but this reminded me a bit of the light-sweetness of JW Gold, but with more of that apple-y Glenfiddich character.  Very happy to see it at 43% although 46% might have done better.  A great offering, although the price makes it a bit out of reach for most.  I think I prefer a beefier dram in this price range.  Still a fantastic whisky for someone who enjoys a nice Glenfiddich or Glenmorangie and wants to see her with her clothes off ;)

Final score:  91/100



It's nice to read a review of this and see someone else get some similar, but also different things from this. You got a bunch of nutty notes out of this that I didn't. I specifically wrote down "Granny Smith" apples though!

Surprised to see no mention of chilli peppers or brown/unrefined sugar though, that was the flavour that really stood out for me. That's the joys of reading other people's tasting notes though, the differences. I really want to pour another dram when I get home and see if I get the dairy butter/cream notes that you did (I saw chocolate and coffee in a few other reviews). That and the melon!



Glenfiddich 21 Gran Reserva, 40% ABV, Speyside

Overall:  

Hello scotchit, this evening I?m sampling the Glenfiddich 21 Gran Reserva, a 21 year old Glenfiddich that is finished is casks that previously held Caribbean rum.

Nosing this blindly I?d almost swear its a bourbon.  There?s so many bourbon characteristics on the nose; the wood becomes more apparent as it opens and more of the delicate scents make their way forward.  Palate entry is very sweet and woody, with the usual Glenfiddich green apples coming out along with some vanilla and a light fruityness.  The finish is pretty short ending with more wood with some ginger spice and vanilla.

Well? if you?re looked for a good rum finished whisky go with the Balvenie Caribbean Cask instead, the rum notes are more prominent, it has a higher ABV and it?s way way cheaper and better. 

86/100



I've gotta wonder if this 40% ABV has knocked the flavor profile down too far. It saddens me to see a 21 year old whisky at 40%.

It seem the best 'Fiddich is either the 15 or the 18 in the affordable range. Nice review!



I was thinking that too. The Balvenie Caribbean Cask is only 43% but way better than this is.

Thanks!



After I tried the Caribbean Cask I was on a rum finish binge. This was a huge disappointment, as was Bruichladdich's Rum Cask 17.

Balvenie seems to be the only distillery to get the rum finish "right" so far.



Well, the reviews may not be all that mysterious, but the whisky was. From all the way across the Atlantic, and in a package with so many stamps it looks it belongs to a philatelist... which is someone who collects stamps. I suppose there are worse hobbies Anyway, whisky.  

Mystery bottle Alpha:  

color: darkisher amber  

nose: grassy... banana, vanilla, corn husk, and rum.  

taste: bourbony...  oily mouth-feel, maple syrup, honey, and light heat.  

finish: not much... grass, hay, twine, and some pepper.  

guess:  honestly? A high-rye bourbon. But if I had to guess a scotch I would say it is a Glenrothes. Sorry to say that I didn't like it -- it reminded me too much of drinking something that had a rope soaking in it. Although it is ultimately a "middle of the pack" type dram that's not offensive, but not outstanding either. Like a Honda Civic. Giving it a 75/100  

Mystery bottle Beta:  

color: amber.  

nose: nearly odorless... honeysuckle, oak, and hint of alcohol.  

taste: smooth, fruity, & bitter-sweet...  lots of apple, pear, more oak, honey, malt, almond, and peach pit.  

finish: fruit stew... mead, more peach, dried mango, even more oak, bullion, caramel, slight lacquer, and a lingering copperiness.  

guess: I think I should finally put my degree to work and offer an educated guess of Glenfiddich 18. I had a suspicion that I might get that. Whatever it is though, it's pretty good, with plenty of oak and fruit and sweet Speysidey characteristics. Very enjoyable, I would drink it again, and I'm giving it an 86/100  

gratitude: of course I owe a huge thanks to /u/Scotch_Fanatic an honorable and presumably handsome Dane. Thanks! And. How'd I do?



Wowee!  I'm surprised I didn't like fiddich 18, it's so well received around these parts. 

Anything else you can tell us about the bottles?



The 21 Gran Reserva - iiiiiiinteresting. That makes 4 'fiddichs for me and I was about to type that the 15 Solera is the best value, but when checking the local prices I noticed it went up to $60 and eff that.  

I can't thank you enough, man! This was my first blind tasting, and I'm a little surprised at myself. I never ever would have guessed a rum finish on the 21. Also, I'd bet I would've scored it a couple points higher if I knew the age statement. Makes one want to reconsider one's cognitive biases.  



I sampled this at one of the LCBO tasting bars.

Appearance: Amber +2

Nose: Apple, ginger, quite fruity, water brings out a slight smokeyness.

Taste: Rich caramel and toffee, lots of fruits (pear, apple, peach). Not overly complex and fairly thin on the palate. Water not advised, brings out bitterness and mutes the already light flavours.

Finish: Finishes with slight smokey undertones, ginger spice, and lingering apple.

Score: 81/100

Overall, this one was pretty underwhelming. It just didn't have any body and was far too fragile. The complexity was also seriously lacking.



Submission added to database (but not yet archived in the official Whisky Review Archive, please do so manually).

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Greetings Scotchit! Tonight, one of Glenfiddich's older expressions. Now, Glenfiddich have always been a bit of a mystery to me. They're the biggest Scotch malt distillery around, but I just can't comprehend how that happened. Is it because they're cheap? It must be, right? Anyway, I find most of their expressions painfully mediocre. 

However, this is the oldest one I've tried from them and it's finished in rum casks (yet still bottled at 40% for reasons unknown to mankind...). Will the finishing help? 

Let's find out!

Glenfiddich 21 Gran Reserva (Rum Finish)
Speyside, 40% ABV, CF, E150, 60ml sample from Whiskysite

Nose: Rather strong. Brown sugar. Red apples. Sour. Malt. Oak. Caramel. Pineapple. Oranges. 

I may just be forgetting what Glenfiddich smells like, but it seems like the rum casks have had a thing or two to say here. 

Taste: Thin mouthfeel, prickly. Oak. Slightly bitter wood. Brown sugar. Caramel. Red apples. Burnt sugar. Pineapple. Oranges.

Not bad, actually. The low ABV hurts, and there's a slight bitterness that I'm not loving, but other than that it's pretty balanced.

Finish: Brief. Oak. Caramel. Brown sugar. Slight banana. 

Not much to write home about, gone before you could anyway.

Summary: Decent. It's got a big number on it, it doesn't taste like butt and it's got a bit of oakiness to introduce you to the world of older whiskies. But! But... it's not great. The rum influence isn't that apparent except on the nose. 

And that's a problem because it's really rather pricy for what I'd count as closer to a mid-range single malt. For the same price, you could get something similar from an independent bottler, and it'd be at cask strength. That's my advice, take it or leave it.

I guess you do get a box, though. Give it to someone who doesn't know much about Scotch and they'd probably be more impressed than with an Auchroisk 23. I'm not really one of them, though, so...

Score: 67/100
Good.

Most Similar To: Glenfiddich 15.

Buy Again? No.



Glenfiddich could be just as good, if not better, than Balvenie. 

Though, I guess they decided to dedicate Balvenie to the 'craft' releases and just let Glenfiddich pump out more mediocre, money making malts. 

Glenfiddich Gallery at half the current price would be great!



I bought this because I thought it was a steal at only ?80. It wasn't worth it, at all. The box is also tacky as hell. Does Glenfiddich even make good product that isn't overpriced as hell? 

I would love some of their recent single cask gallery, but holy shit, there is no way in hell I am paying ?400 for a 20 year old Glenfiddich single cask. 



Thanks to /u/adrias5280 for the sample!  This was aged for 21 years and then finished in ex-Rum casks.  Bottled at 40% ABV.

?

Nose:  Very sweet and rich and fruity.  Vanilla frosting, apple cobbler, pears, and lingonberries.  A bit of pineapple and white grape juice as well.

Palate:  Medium weight.  Bright and less cloying that I expected from the nose.  Very fruity.  Wedding cake.  Tons of pears and apples.  A bit of cinnamon and spice.  Honey.

Finish:  Medium short finish.  Quite a bit of oaky spice here.  Tons of pepper and very dry.  Too much oaky spice.

Score: 83/100

?

This starts out great.  The nose is lovely.  And its just a big fruit bomb on the first sip.  But the finish kind of ruins it for me.



Hi Scotchit! I'm about to review a Gran Reserva, which is Spanish for super fancy. Muchas gracias to /u/Scotch_Fanatic for the sample.

Glenfiddich 21 Gran Reserva

Speyside, 40%

color: light brown

nose: floral, oak, green banana, hint of marzipan, elder, leather, orange juice

taste: oak, green bananas, herbal tea, lime, ginger ale, pears, cinnamon

finish: drying

Quite mild. It's fine, but this had to be bottled at higher strength. It really seems too soft. Not just another rant at a lower proof malt, this is really watered-down. Come on guys: Who makes a 21 yo malt and call it Gran Reserva and then bottle it at only 40%? What a shame, wasted potential.

I don't want to sound like an ungrateful or snotty critic. Thanks to /u/Scotch_Fanatic for the swap. I got superb whisky from you. Cheers to the men and women at Glenfiddich's distillery: you are making a great job. There was just some dude who decided to bottle this at 40%, which was wrong in my humble opinion. Thanks for reading.

79/100



Thanks for the vertical, always great to see these.

Just had the 15 Distillers Edition this past weekend, and wasn't as crazy about it - found it too oaky bitter on the finish.  Prefer the 18 and 21 Gran Reserva, personally.



best of the range

I quite like the 15 DE, but I reserve that title for the 14yo Rich oak. Tried it?



I can't say I've had the DE, but the only one I found that I actually liked enough to buy a full bottle of is their 14 Bourbon Barrel Reserve. The more substantial caramel and vanilla notes help mute that apple/pear barrage that I find off-putting and the actual wood comes through nicely with some decent spice. Throw in that it's bottled at 43% and you get something that's actually pretty good.

All of which is odd because I'm not generally a fan of ex-bourbon maturation.



Hey everyone,

Glenlivet yesterday, Glenfiddich today. Again, one of the most recognised brands and one that is often cited as a good beginner malt. I normally find it has a similar profile to Glenlivet but with more fruit and less floral notes. 

Interstingly, despite being huge and making a metric shit-tonne (technical term) of whisky, they still have small direct fired stills, which should give it a more traditional character. Although, I think the only time it can show itself off is at higher strength. 

As with Glenlivet, I?m not a huge fan of Glenfiddich, even the older stuff. Never really bottled above 40%, I feel like the character of the spirit is normally too muted. Anyways, here?s my reviews:

?

Glenfiddich 12 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Vanilla, boiled sweets, light and floral, sweet fruit- Apple, pear, peach, bit of toffee.

Taste: Sweet, fruity, lots of vanilla, toffee, oaky, malt, bit of spice, slightly oily.

Finish: Short length. Honey disappears with a bit of oak.

More fruity, less floral than Glenlivet 12, but just as boring.

55/100

?

Glenfiddich 15 Solera Vat 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Very nutty and fruity. Tiny bit of heat, classic apple and pear combo, sweety shop, fragrant and perfumed- Incense, rosewater, lavender, malty chocolate.

Taste: Very light and delicate. Nut- Peanut?, and fruit- Apple and pear, toffee, sweety shop sweets, creamy oak, malty chocolate into the finish.

Finish: Medium length. Apple crumble and milk chocolate.

Similar to the Glenlivet 15 but maybe more sherry influence.

65/100

?

Glenfiddich 15 Distillery Edition 51%

Colour: Gold

Body: Full

Nose: Dark chocolate, deep fruity flavours- Blackberry, spice- Cinnamon, bit of nut, caramel, some pepper, honey, peach, raisin.

Water: Fruit softens, more herbal. More oak, barley and cereal.

Taste: Sweet, full dark rich fruit, caramel, vanilla, cinnamon, cream. Juicy inteense fresh fruit.

Water: More spice, then more barley and cereal.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Oakiness coming through and dominates, bit of almond.

Non-chillfiltered Glenfiddich is actually good! Well behaved for 51%.

75/100

?

Glenfiddich 21 Gran Reserva 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light/Medium

Nose: Complex. Vanilla and spice, a dusting of nutmeg and cinnamon powder, toffee, vanilla fudge, creamy oak, complex pear- lots of sweet pear, pear drops, sour pear, pear Moams (the chewy sweets), white grape, some apple, honey, raisin, coffee, a layer of spice running under everything.

Taste: Very light and delicate. Soft and creamy, lots of pear, tiny bit of apple, white grape, creamy oak, bit of spice developing, malty chocolate, McVites milk chocolate digestives.

Finish: Medium length. Malty chocolate and spiced oaky tannins.

Last little bit of the bottle- Thanks u/generalbirdy Still took some time to open up. Rum finish has a light touch.

75/100

?

Glenfiddich Special Old Reserve 1980's

Colour: Light Gold

Body: Light/Medium

Nose: Oak leaves, oak wood, light dusty fruit- Apple and pear, pear drops, peahc, damp leaves, a bit of youth, vanilla, dusty shelf, bit of toffee. After 5-10 minutes it went sappy with rough coffee.

Taste: Light arrival, cream, very fruity- Apple and pear, very long development with very sweet red apple, apple crumble, twigs and building oaky spice (a bit rough).

Finish: Long length. Lots of coffee.

1/3 full open bottle that was my Step-Granddad's. So, so different to modern Glenfiddich.

??/100- Really don?t know what to mark this. But much more character than the new stuff.

?

I?ve tasted a few others, The Discovery series, Vintage cask and 25 Rare cask but wasn?t able to make proper notes. 

Thanks for reading!

Reviews #253-#257



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/glenfiddich

Network Average: 75.6

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



A bit of a change of pace from my usual, by the book, tongue in cheek (especially if she's cute) reviews. By fluke, friends of mine were able to have a Scotch tasting up North recently at my parents cottage on National Scotch Day. If only it were in the US then we would have been official.

None the less, of the 12 Scotches we had, there were 4 that I hadn't reviewed yet, so this will be both a "Scotch party" post and 4 Scotch reviews.

First we had an amazing dinner, cooked by my mother, my beautifully talented wife, and helped by yours truly. Dinner included:

Baked ham with brown sugar and Chinese Five spice rub

Garlic chili sauce green beans

Ginger honey carrots

Steamed cauliflower with a homemade bechamel sauce

Roasted garlic and rosemary potatoes

Paired with the Scotches were:

Fruit flan, homemade with blueberries and strawberries

8 year old cheddar, naturally aged

Brie cheese

Lindt creamy milk chocolate

Manoa Hawaiian Chocolate Bars: 1 Bolivian Dark Chocolate 63% cocoa and 1 Pineapple Ghost Pepper Dark Chocolate

Soma Aleppo Pepper Dark Chocolate bar

Nanaimo bars

Apple Fritters

Cinnamon buns

Somehow we still had some room for Scotch after all of that. The Scotches we had to sample were:

Lowland

Highland

Speyside

Aberlour 10 year

Aberlour 12 year Sherry Cask

Glenlivet 12

Glenlivet 15 French Oak Cask

Glenlivet 16 Nadurra

Glenfiddich 21 Gran Reserva

Islay/Island

Tobermory 10 year

Laphroaig Battlehill 13 year

Lagavulin 16 year

Cambelton

Above you'll see links to my previous reviews. And now, onto the reviews for the new ones:

Glenlivet 15 French Oak Cask 

The second youngest in the limited series, the Glenlivet 15 French Oak Cask is aged partially in French oak for a little bit to give it some different characteristics from the 12, yet not too long to overpower the Glenlivet signature "Avon" flavour.

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Price: $65.95 (CAD)

Colour: Pee

Nose: Green apple, oak, smoke, honey, lime, honey heather, floral

At first I found this one very similar to the 12 in the nose, yet as time goes on I am finding the floral notes to be more distinct, the smoke to be more present, and the honey to be a better quality honey (think No. 1 Amber versus Golden).

Taste: Smooth, smoke, orange, lime, burn, pepper, cinnamon, squash, lemon, yeast

Much smoother than the 12 (didn't think that was possible), and some more smoke. Vegetal flavours stop by for a chat, though not a long visit. Also kinda yeasty. Interesting

Finish: Smoke, wood, blueberry, melon, violet, mushroom

The woody and earthy tones set this one apart from it's younger brother, the My Little Pony of Scotch. 

Conclusion: Nicer than the 12, as it has more complexity. I'd call this one the Adventure Time of Scotch. Kinda wacky but you can still recommend it to people without getting odd looks.

78/100

Glenlivet 16 Nadurra

The reigning champion of the Glenlivet, as it is Cask Strength, not the travel retail 48% (aka "What's the point?"). Missing out on the typical feeling of "Is this missing something" that other Glenlivets suffer from, I've been looking forward to trying this for quite awhile.

Note: In order to not hold others up, I did not take my typical amount of time to review this one, and as such will be reviewing it again in the future.

Region: Speyside

Abv: 54.2%

Price: $84.95 (CAD)

Colour: Green Yellow

Nose: Green apple, honey, cardamon, cumin, banana, oak, vanilla

This starts out similar to the 15 yet has more spice and more "Oomph". The spices push aside the typical fruity/flower smells and really show you what this Scotch can do.

Taste: Apple juice, pepper, smoke, taffy, chili, charcoal, lemon candy, coffee, licorice

Wow. Smoke and licorice are what Glenlivet has needed this whole time. There's an abundance of different flavours, all nicely aligned. And it's not watery like other Glenlivets.

Finish: Lots of smoke, cumin, cherry, lemon, tobacco, chewy sticks, cider

There's a chewy, fruity flavour here. I'm going to have to revisit this, as I'm almost missing things, and the power has been shut off, so I'm trying to review while being a good host, and be all smiles.

Conclusion: If the other Scotches were kid's shows watched by Adults, this has viewer discretion advised. This is the Breaking Bad of Scotch: the one who knocks. My score may change when I have a chance to fully appreciate this one, yet for now, this is the one who knocks.

84/100

Glenfiddich 21 Gran Reserva

One of my friends decided that he wasn't screwing around when it came to a Scotch tasting, and he was going to show up with the Show Stopper, the big Bopper, the Cherry popping lover... wait, I think I went off topic.

Anyway, the Glenfiddich 21 Gran Reserva is a beast. Aged for 21 years and then finished in Rum casks for 4 months, this is a work of art. I was blown away that he brought it, and very happy I was able to try it in my lifetime. 

I was also happy that we all took awhile to enjoy this one, and I even skipped the next Scotch in rotation to continue enjoying my dram.

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Price: $241.95 (CAD)

Colour: Brown sugar

Nose: Sugar, smoke, lemon rind, orange, cocoa, tomato/acid, ginger, oak, banana

From one second to the next, you're dealing with a changing bevy of great smells. Very sweet, not oaky, and wonderfully balanced.

Taste: Lime, orange, smooth, mango, pepper, ginger, light banana, little burn, plum, honey

The rum influence shows up after awhile, and I was happy for it. I think this really needs the rum to differentiate itself. That's not to say it's bad, I'm just saying that without the rum, this would be more of a gimmick than the great Scotch that it turns out to be.

Finish: Peach, oak, mint, orange, cheesecake, toffee, dry

Tons of Peach in the finish, and a lot of dryness mixed with fluffy sweetness.

Conclusion: This is a very well balanced, smooth, flavourful Scotch. The time in the barrel hasn't caused an overabundance of oak or vanilla, and the extra time in the rum casks has really set it apart from other Glenfiddich offerings. It's sweets, it's smooth, and it's flavourful. I'm still a big peat head, however if I had to change, I'd be happy with this one as well.

87/100

Tobermory 10 year

The Tobermory 10 year is an Island Scotch, the only one of the night. It comes from the Isle of Mull, and is a pretty inexpensive Scotch. In Ontario peaty Scotches usually have the greatest markup, so perhaps this will be a good alternative (Spoiler: NO).

Region: Isle of Mull

Abv: 46.3%

Price: $63.95 (CAD)

Colour: Neon yellow

Nose: Sour smoke, peat, poor/bad bacon, musky room, sour corn

At first I thought something had rotted. Then I wondered if not showering had been a good idea. Perhaps the power outage was caused by hundreds of dead squirrels on the power line.

Nope. It was the Scotch. Over time you get used to the sour corn smell and it's just peat and musk. Not enticing to put in your mouth.

Taste: Sour lemon, pepper beef, sour veggies, burn, pepper

Why? Why sour? Of all the.. different flavours, we go for sour? Really? And the peat is gone, just pepper and burn now. I'd say Charcoal normally, but the sour... oh god, the Sour.

Finish: Lime, taco meat, bad grapes, yeast, peat, earth, wood, orange rind

The finish tries at least, yet the sourness keeps going. Kinda like your first sip of Bunnahabhain 12. Except Bunnahabhain 12 eventually leads to some nicer flavours and sheds the sourness, not amplifies it and offers it to you like a friend's mom who thinks you're too skinny while you're eating dinner there for the first time.

Conclusion: Spend the extra money. Buy something else. Enjoy good smokey alcohol, not harsh, painful, sour mess.

65/100

Scotch reviews #55-#58, Speyside Reviews #15-#18, Island Review #4



You got your brackets the wrong way around for the Lagavulin link, it's []().

Also, great reviews. 

Tobermory is shit IMO, as is Ledaig - and the worst part is that I have a bottle of each that I will very likely never finish. I try every month or two to get used to them, but can't. Tobermory's the better one, overall, but still not great.

I got the 48% Nadurra once accidentally and swore for a long time. Why does that exist? Fucking Glenlivet...



Thanks for the heads up, appreciated.

Damn Tobermory. I got used to the nose, but that taste... I've been testing out aging my own rum recently, and after 3 days of aging it had a little sourness and wasn't as bad. I can't believe someone releases Tobermory and expects money for it.

The worst part? The 48% Nadurra is the Travel Exclusive. You'd think they'd keep the 48% as the typical and the Cask Strength as something special only at airports.



Travel Exclusives are generally totally bullshit. Stuff like Highland Park's vintages or NAS releases, or lots of other examples. 

The only stuff I know is OK is the Laphroaig PX Cask. There's also the Balvenie Triple Cask series, but I haven't tried it, so don't know if it's crap or not.



Honestly, I have both and can send you samples if you don't mind doing an international swap.

Don't buy them without trying them first, though. 



The beans were heavenly. My wife knows how to cook, but doesn't use recipes, so when everyone raved about them she couldn't share how she did it. She made them again last night, and they are really good.

It happens, and it's odd, but reading past reviews of the Tobermory just now has made me wonder if there was just something about I didn't like. Also I was a few drinks in, so my review may be off.

That all being said, I really don't want to try it again.



That is a lot different foods and scotches to have in one sitting.  Your taste buds would have to be overloaded?  I could never do a review that way.  The foods you paired with your scotches were probably skewing the way they would actually taste if you would have a clean palate.  For a test your should go back to the 4 you reviewed below and see if they change.

For example, in your Tobermory 10 tasting notes you were getting beef and bacon notes.  Tobermory is very lightly peated and nothing like an Islay.  Also, if you compare your notes on Tobermory 10 to the reviews in the archive no one else is picked up meaty notes.

To each is their own, but I really believe the food and the number of scotches tasted was effecting your taste buds.  Try to go back to the 4 below and see if they change on you.  You may be surprised.

Thanks for posting!  Your Scotch Day sounds like heaven to me.



I'll take that into consideration, and I'll be reviewing the Nadurra again, however I didn't notice much difference in the other 8 I had reviewed before. It could be that I was off on some of them, and I am by no means a perfect reviewer, yet I'm hesitant to try the Tobermory again. Also I didn't take as long to review these Scotches as I typically do, otherwise I would have been drinking for 12 hours.

As for taste buds being overloaded, to alleviate that we took an hour break between dinner and the actual tasting, had water between each Scotch, and I personally skipped Scotches that I wasn't a fan of. Any dessert/cheese that we had with the tasting was in small doses. Not to mention the Tobermory was the first Islay/Island we had, so any cross contamination would have been from sweeter Scotches, not Islays.



I love scotch comparos. Is this the order you tried them in? 

Looking forward to reading the rest.