Quick review time. Thanks for the sample /u/bigmoneysalsa!

Glengoyne 17 

43%

N: Sweet, light, green fruits. Vanilla. Menthol. Cocoa. Cinnamon. Cherry preserves. 

P: Good creamy mouthfeel. Baking spices. Green apple. Oak. Orange zest. Milk chocolate. Pepper. Brown sugar. Almonds. 

F: Sweet but dry. Short-mid length. Cocoa powder and coffee grounds. Caramel and fruit. 

87/100

I reviewed this a while back and didn't write anything down except the above notes, but I did enjoy it quite a bit. Insert stock "would be knockout at higher abv" sentiment here. 

Buy? Sure! Everything doesn't need to be a CS beast!



Hey guys! Gaxkang here with my 25th review. 
Glengoyne 17yo. ABV: 43% 

Since I heard that this expression has just been discontinued, I decided to give this a try. Was able to buy a dram of this for $6!

Color: Dark brown 

Nose: A bit of vinegar and sea salt, creamy, fruity, sweet, vanilla

Taste: vanilla, toffee, nutty, chocolate, sweet, creamy, spicy, salty, cereal, a bit dry

Reminds me of the Old Pulteney 21 (It's the only OP I've had yet) but spicier.

Finish: A long warm smooth kiss of warmth, spice, sweetness, vanilla and fruitiness

Conclusion: I guess Ralfy was right when he said that THIS IS the star of the show in the Glengoyne expressions. Honestly, I never thought I'd like any Glengoyne after reading the reviews here and Ralfy's review of the younger one/s. But, this I like. $6 well spent. Might even pick up a bottle! Making this 46% ABV will do make this an even more excellent dram imo!

Score: 90/100



Nice review!

This isn't part of Glengoyne's new lineup, unfortunately. There is an 18 year old that I'd like to try though...



So...whoops. I didn't look at what I'd reviewed and I accidentally did two new reviews on a couple. SO, let's see what happened, shall we?

First, the new stuff:

Glengoyne 17, 43%, $70

Nose:  salted caramel, honey, toffee, fruity (pear maybe?)
Taste: VANILLA! Sweet fruits ? pears, apples- char, oak
Finish: Short but sweet with mild black pepper
Rating: 85/100
Final Thoughts: Lovely dram. Totally worth the voyage. Surprisingly complex and enjoyable. I?d like to try it at a higher ABV but at 43 it?s got tons of character.

Glenlivet Nadurra, 53.5%, Bottled 01/12, Batch 0112R, 65$

Nose:  oak, crisp fruits, artificial banana
Taste: sweet jammy fruits, spice (not cinnamon or nutmeg though), bubblegum
Finish: chile pepper, banana pepper
Rating: 86/100
Final Thoughts: This dram continues to surprise me. Its complex and long and fresh and delicious. I always come back to the Nadurra and I enjoy it every time. I?d love to sit different batches side-by-side and see how they stack up.

Now the doubles, with the old review in italics:

GlenRothes 1998, 43%, 60$

Nose:  vanilla, citrus, honey Sweet, honeyed fruit
Taste: honey, lemon cookies Sweet, fruity, bit of saltiness
Finish: short and sweet spice - nutmeg  surprisingly spicy with a sourness (like a reverse sour candy), lingering
Rating: 79/100  * 80/100*
Final Thoughts: Solid speyside. Step above the Select Reserve, but not by much. Very drinkable, just not very interesting. Would definitely give it to a friend looking to get into scotch. Not very complex on the nose and tongue, but a strong finish. Very much a speyside. A little disappointing, but a step above the Select Reserve.

Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban, 46%, 50$  

Nose:  chocolate, orange, spice tea  maple Syrup, honey, glazed donuts
Taste: sweet chocolate, bitter fruits, salty caramel briney peppers, simple syrup, woody, toffee
Finish: light and spicy, sweet fruits salty and peppery, more toffeee
Rating: 85/100 86/100
Final Thoughts: Lovely and complex. I mean, who doesn?t like this dram? Simply lovely. Having recently begun experimenting with port, this imparts a lot of the port on the nose. Sweet and amazing.

I think the big tell here is I have trouble with toffee/caramel. Need to work on it. Also, the Quinta Ruban is super complex and I'm going to rank that fucker up to 87/100. It deserves it.



Hey malt mates!  Welcome to my small achievement of reaching Review #50 on scotchit!  And thank you to those who read as well as the subscribers of this sub for your support, information, swaps and knowledge on this hobby of Scotch.  Next year I will working on a number of vertical tastings from: Laphroaig, Glenfiddich, Glenlivet, Ardbeg and Glenmorangie.  Whiskies I have had, tasted but have yet to post reviews on.  On to today?s review:

Glengoyne 17:  43%  $50 K&L

Color:  Amber +2, Slow Wide tears, Thick Legs.

Nose:  Carmel Syrup, Berries, Malty, Sherry, Red Wine, Cinnamon, Brown Sugar, Cherries, Floral, Sweet Tea, Red Apple, Strawberries.

Mouth Feel:  Medium Oily Body, Mild Spice.

Taste:  Wine, Dark Chocolate, White Pepper, Sherry, Oak, Fruit: Berries, Apples, Honey, Carmel, Anise Seed.

Finish:  Charred Oak, Nutmeg, Cinnamon, Almonds, Carmel Syrup, Caramelized Sugar.

With Water:  N:  Floral, Roses, port Wine, Raspberries, Orange.
T:  Sweet Red Wine, Dark Cherries, Coca, Barley Syrup, Wintergreen.

Score:  Nose: 23,  Taste: 22,  Finish: 22,  Balance: 20    Total: 87

In general a lot of nice components, a bit edgier that a few whiskies around this age, (especially a number of 18?s that quickly come to mind) but a nice overall complexity.  Less than 17 years might give this whisky more bite in the taste, but the age most likely enhances the nose.   



Hello friends, have some free time tonight so I plan on doing a couple reviews. First up I have a sample from /u/Rockindaddy, the Glengoyne 17 year. This is my 54th review.

Glengoyne 17, Highland, 43% ABV

Nose: Salty caramel and red apples. Allspice, orange liqueur. Tamarind, plum juice. Earthy smoked salmon and cream cheese.

Palate: Creamy milk chocolate, salty Cabernet. Pie crust, stale black pepper, vanilla extract.

Finish: That milk chocolate gives way to sharp cocoa powder, cold americano. Salt, truffle oil, vegetal and floral. Very soft. Hints of candied maraschino cherries.

85/100

Quite good, thank sfor reading!



9th Review: Glengoyne 17yr / 43% ABV / $49

tasted neat, then with a bit of filtered water

Despite all the cloying adjectives above, the Glengoyne 17 isn't terribly sweet.  It has some floral and fruity subtitleties, but also a great richness in the mouth and finish.  It's not as heavy as an Islay or Macallan sherry bomb, but it's pleasant. ** Extremely pleasant; a bit too straightforward, lacking in complexity.**

Glengoyne claims that their process produces a superior product:

Unlike most other single malts Glengoyne has been preserving the essence of its flavour for decades by using air-dried barley rather than barley dried using harsh peat smoke. The result is a more subtle, complex whisky in which all of the delicate flavours are freely allowed to express themselves.

So biomortis will love this unpeated one ;)

Rating: 81/100



Single malt. Highland (sort of). 43% ABV. $58 USD.

Score: 84/100

I bought this on a whim without knowing anything about it. According to Wikipedia, the distillery is located on the border between the Highlands and the Lowlands. It's distilled in the Highlands and aged across the road in the Lowlands. 

I tend to prefer smoke and was skeptical when I saw their slogan ("The authentic taste of malt whisky untainted by peat smoke"), but variety is the spice of life and this is a nice change of pace. It's not particularly complex but it's very drinkable. I wouldn't buy another bottle at this price - maybe if it were $15 cheaper. I think a recent post said this was being discontinued for a 15yo at the same price, which is a bit sad it if it's true. 



I don't really know too much about this distillery other than it's one of the many Glen* distilleries of Scotland. I read the description on the tube of:

"...rich fruity sweetness of apple compote, Christmas pudding and oranges in syrup. Hints of pear-drops, vanilla and a slight nuttiness all lead to a long, rich, spicy oak finish."

This pretty much describes many things I like in a Scotch. I've never personally had Christmas pudding, but I can only assume that it's something like a rich, fudgy, dark stone fruit-like moist, dense bread pudding. After doing a bit of background on this bottle, apparently this is a discontinued bottling from Glengoyne as well.

Glengoyne 17 / 43% ABV

Setup - Neat in a glencairn

Wallet Damage - May of 2017 / 750mL / ~$83 USD / (after WA state taxes of 20.5% + $3.77/liter)

Region/Type: Highland

Filtration: YES?

Nose - Spice stewed dark dried pit fruits, dark chocolate covered orange peels, spicy vanilla, hint of marzipan.

Taste - Black pepper spice, stewed dark dried stone fruits, bitter dark chocolate, dark caramel, sherry soaked fruitcake, hint of orange zest.

Finish - Lingering black pepper spice, fades to red wine stewed dark stone fruit sweet, slight metallic finish like that from canned mandarin oranges, lightly drying.

Score - 91/100

Final Thoughts - This one has an absolutely amazing nose that I can smell for days. The more I nose it, the more I get out of it. It's like a sweet brioche french toast covered in a maple syrup that's been infused with sherry and dried stone fruits. It's not as intense on the palate as I think the potential chill-filtering and lower proof might have taken a bit out of this, but it's still quite tasty. Mouthfeel is a bit thin, but most of the flavors you get on the nose are still there, although toned down a bit. Everything about this is great except for the slight metallic hint I get on the finish, which is a bit off putting. Overall, a great dram and I kind of wish they offered this at a slightly higher proof or at least un-chillfiltered to maintain all the great things I got on the nose.

Whisk[e]y Network Review #150

NOTE - All reviews are done without factoring in price paid.



Glengoyne 17: puts dog to sleep

The 17 has been discontinued, and there is an 18 that's part of the regular lineup (along with 10, 12, 15, 21, 25 and Cask Strength). Folks generally like the 18, but seemingly not as well as the 17.



Glengoyne 17, 43% ABV

Thanks to mattofmattfame for the sample!

Nose: Sweet and fruity. Glace cherries, pine and milk chocolate. Poached pears with honey. Vanilla, citrus and cinnamon. Faint Vicks Vaporub.

Taste: Smooth, sweet and creamy. Fresh herbs, endive and floral honey. Pepper, anise and cashews. Grape, orange skin. and oak spice.

Finish: Cereal, malt and espresso. Raw sugar and a pinch of salt. Faint floral and herbal notes. Medium, slightly bitter and dryish.

I love the nose on this! The taste and finish could have been better, but still very good. This is my second Glengoyne; I prefer the 12 CS by a small margin.

It's a shame this is being discontinued because this is a very nice dram.

87/100

Review #70, thanks for reading.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  got a nice little sample of Glengoyne 17 year old 86 proof in the mail recently.  I mean not in the mail, I totally paid for a whole bottle.  

mellon. simple.  sugary.  a slightly richer version of the 10 year old I had before.  meh.  I'm sure there are great Glengoynes, but so far I havent found it. 

74/100