I tried this dram at the Celtic music festival in Hartford, CT back in Sep.  I made friends with the gentleman that was pouring the drinks and he gave me a drink of the Glen Grant 16 as well.  I really enjoyed the 10 and it has become a staple of my selection and it's a very affordable "every day" drink that is quite enjoyable and far superior, in my opinion, to other drinks in a similar price range.

Glen Grant 10

Speyside

Color: Light, watered-down honey or olive oil.

40% alcohol/vol

Price: $42 USD for 750 ml

Nose: Fruity (variety of apples, it reminded me of a farmstand in the fall), mild vanilla or white chocolate, nutty (almond or pecan).

Taste: Taste is very similar to the nose which I love about this dram.  Stronger nuttiness (mostly almond), creamy vanilla, melted white chocolate, more complexity to the fruitiness (Golden delicious apple, pear, tart cherry are all present. Mild woody flavor to add to the "orchard" experience

Finish: Quite long and changes over time.  Initially fairly woody, slightly sour like an almond husk, slight cool menthol.  Over about 20-30 seconds the finish becomes sweeter and more fruity.  Honey flavor that coats the mouth with apple, cherry and other lighter summer fruit (plum & peach).

As mentioned above this has become a staple in my collection.  For the taste and enjoyment I get out of this dram I would think that it was a $60 or $70 bottle, not $40-$45.  This was one of the first drams I had that really helped me, as a fairly new scotch drinker, to realize that an older bottle doesn't necessarily mean better, and that there are some delicious younger whiskys out there.

Final Score: 88/100 Definitely would buy again

Edit: I took the second picture of the glass just to get a better view of the color, I realized it looked very dark i the first picture I took.



Glen Grant is great if you like oak, granny smith apples, and other tropical fruits. Just straight up good Whisky in my book. I'm going to use the NAS major's reserve for my Ralfy-esque inverted maturation experiment in the next couple of days. 

Thanks for the review!



That's definitely pretty close to what I tastes...the majority of the flavor was apples and the woody/nuttiness.  There definitely was the background hint of cherries or peach.

I'm really enjoying doing reviews, makes me appreciate the flavors so much more.



This one doesn't get much mention in scotchit. Interestingly, the
website asks what country you're from and doesn't give the USA as an
option. Maybe it's not normally distributed here?

From the packaging: 'Glen Grant 10 year old displays a rich golden
barley colour with a balanced medium-dry bouquet. This superb Single
Malt offers a clean fruity palate with a long delicate nutty finish.'

40% ABV,  Speyside, aged in bourbon barrels.

Color:  Clear gold. Reminds me of urine,  to be honest.

Nose: Toffee and vanilla, apples and pears and other fruit, with more
of an alcohol burn than I'd expect from 80 proof.

Palate: Initial burst of brine, vanilla, grass, a faint hint of smoke. 

Finish: The box got it right. I'd say... hazelnut or chestnut? Again,
quite a bit of burn. More than I'm used to from this proof. It's nice.

I love how this whisky smells, and the aftertaste. The initial taste
itself, though...  I wish the fruits in the aroma were present in it,
but I just can't find them.  The briney notes I wasn't sure about in
an earler review of Oban 14 are starting to grow on me, though, and
keep it interesting. All in all, an easy drinking decent whisky.

81/100. 



I thought Glenlivet and Glenfiddich had those spots. 

There are too many Glen- scotches.



Happy Tuesday /r/scotch! Its a cold, windy, rainy day and the only way to brighten it up is a nice glass of whisky. As I try to clear out my backlog of things to review I noticed that one of my new favorite scotch whiskies sat there un-reviewed. Let's change that! I stumbled upon Glen Grant 10 year old when I went to the grand opening of a new liquor store in town. They did not have much product and what they had was pretty standard fare  (johnnie Walker and Glenlivet etc) but they did have one bottle I'd never heard of...Glen Grant 10. It was lonely and inexpensive so I just had to bring the little guy home! 

Glen Grant 10 year old, Speyside Single malt, 40% ABV, $39.99/750ml in CT

Nose very light and fruity. Notes of apple and faint pomegranate, honey, cereal, cashew and pecan, floral notes also work into the nose.

Light and sweet smells that all mingle together nicely, nothing extravagant, but still quite good 8/10

Taste primarily nutty notes, like pecans and cashews, traces of sherry, pear and red grape, honey, malt. 

Everything tastes fresh and well rounded, nothing sticks out, nothing takes away from it. This reminds me a lot of other similar whiskies like Glenlivet and Glenfarclas, only better. 45/50

Body I'll admit, this is the low point. It's awkwardly think for something with this flavor profile. Nothing terribly off-putting, but still less than ideal 6/10

Finish nutty flavors resonate, mild warming, overall the finish is brief though. It's simply begging you to take another sip! 17/20

Value This whisky is nothing terribly unique, so to set itself apart from others it would need to be very good. I feel like that has been accomplished here! Similar malts like Glenlivet 12, Glenfarclas 12, Glenmorangie 10, Glenfiddich 12 don't quite hold their ground against this whiskey. The best part about it is that Glen Grant is typically a few dollars cheaper (if not more) than all of those others! I will keep this around at all times for when I want something light! 10/10

Overall Glen Grant 10 is a simple and effective single malt that really hits the spot when you want something lighter. If you have been on the fence about this I would recommend that you go ahead and check it out, you wont be disappointed!  86/100

To find all of my other reviews check out my personal data base:
https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1aH_HhqFiMNLtsT3kKlSO3gkUgvpBBd1WsiJcUtMuCDU/edit#gid=0



(BTW--mods, could I get belatedly tartaned, please and thank you!)

Despite his tendency to (over)gild every lily, I place some real stock into Jim Murray?s insight?he certainly knows way more about the stuff than I do, and I agree with him that whiskies like the OP 21 and the Ardbeg Oogy are the freaking shit.  But was he right about Glen Grant 10 being the best 2015 multi-cask scotch 10 years or under?  I don?t know?I haven?t tasted all of them?but I came away a tad underwhelmed by his choice for this one.  So in honor of the new edition of the Whisky Bible coming out later this month, here?s my review of the Glen Grant 10:

Nose: Lemon zest, honey, and woodiness, a combination I wouldn?t first expect to go well together, are pervasive, and actually are quite pleasant to experience together.  Floral hints as well, but not like a bouquet in a flower shop; more like the smell of an outdoor garden or backyard.  A very nice start.

Body: Light, almost too light?possibly due to the relatively low 40% ABV.  Extremely delicate, its presence seems to fade quickly (which may be exacerbated by the disappointing finish?see below).

Palate: Fruity, but with a twist of salt with the sweet-and-sour notes, closest to salted apple or pear.  Flavors of hay, citrus, and tart too.  A tad one-dimensional, but sooo smooth for a 10-year-old dram.

Finish: Drops off rather quickly.  Minimal burn, but it also doesn?t linger much either.  I appreciate that it is far smoother than most scotches its age, but the way it just dies in the mouth is a letdown.

Price: USD $40-42 in my location, which is honestly not an ideal price point.  For four bucks more, I could get my go-to Old Pulteney 12.  For four bucks less, I could get the ever reliable Aberlour 12.  The Glen Grant 10, lesser in finish and body to both, is stuck as the poor piggy in the middle. 

Overall: The Glen Grant 10 started out fantastic? I really enjoyed the nose and palate, and if it were just based solely on that, ~$40/bottle would be a steal.  But then it just fell flat on the finish.  Maybe expecting a longer finish while maintaining the smoothness from the palate is simply asking too much of a 10 year old scotch, but after trying the Bruichladdich Laddie 10, I don?t think it is.  And especially compared with the Speyburn 10 that I just reviewed, which is comparable to it in quality (I think) but $15 less, I?ll admit that I had hoped for a bit more.  As it is, it?s a perfectly adequate daily drinker, but one that leaves you wondering what might have been.  79/100



Fast food and high quality french cuisine are not an appropriate comparison here unfortunately.  This is especially true because you're comparing each product individually and not entire menus of products.  

For example, if an expression is peated and you don't like peat then the entire product is undesirable to you.  Whereas the french restaurant will most likely produce at least one product that you favor.  To make your comparison match more closely we would need to compare each distillery's entire lineup via quality and that's a tough road to hoe.  

Now comparing OP40 to, say, OP12 - I haven't had OP40 but my guess is that at that age a lot of earthy notes show up and much of the brininess of the 12 gets subdued.  Well if I prefer the brininess and don't care for dark earth tones then I'll pick the OP12 every day and neither Mr. Murray or any other authority would be able to judge my preference.  

This "preference" bit gets even more complicated as you cross distilleries, age groups, bottling types etc.  Once you accept that individual preferences can't be wrong you can throw the entire authority line of thinking out the window.



So I think that's why the tasting notes of reviews matter.

True, but unfortunately they are typically boiled down to the number score on the shelf tag, which is as far as most people get.



Hello again good people of /r/Scotch. Here is a dram I would never normally have tried. Ending up at a tour of the distillery randomly, because nowhere nearby was open this proved to be such a lovely whisky I immediately picked up a bottle in the gift shop (?35). When asked, "Do you often find people picking up a bottle of the 10 after the tasting?" our guide smiled widely and said "Oh yes. One or more in every tour." Founded in 1840, Glen Grant has a long and interesting history and enjoys a surprising popularity in Italy. The distilling process is known for the addition of special condensers (seen on the right hand side here) which give the whisky an intentional light character. 

Glen Grant 10 Year Old, Speyside single malt, ABV 40%, chill-filtered, E150a

Colour:  Bright clear watery straw yellow

Nose: Sweet vanilla, toffee, apples, slightly herbal in the background

Palate: Sweet, dry, more vanilla, well balanced and fruity, medium oak wood tones, oily mouthfeel

Finish: Light maltyness with pineapple juice and a surprising subtle peat fade, light and smooth burn

This compares with Glenkinchie and maybe even Glenlivet 12 in terms of how light, floral and dry it is, and certainly one of those drams for summer days. This is not a particularly complex dram but on its own merits it is surprising with an unexpected oily mouthfeel as though it were non-chill filtered and also packing a oddly pleasant pineapple peat finish. I often find myself reaching for this over Glenlivet 12. It is well worth recommending to people who'd normally get enjoyment out of the lighter, bourbon-y Speysides. Next time you're leaning towards Glenkinchie, Glenlivet 12, Glenfiddich 12 or even Glenmorangie 10 I'd urge you to give this wee nip.

65/100, would buy again



anything above 50 is positive in your books.  I still don't agree with that system since it's not used by many people and is confusing.  Not saying you need to change what you like or anything, no.

Its just, if I'm going to consider rebuying a Scotch, it has to have high marks because I don't want to waste my time and the small amount of money I have.  Even though you say anything over 50 is good for you, you really would "buy it again" considering its low even on your scale?  I guess I just don't see the point of rebuying something that isn't awesome when there are soooo many to try.

so thats my confusion- why buy again, if its on the lower end of your scale?  why not go to Glen Grant 17 next instead?  



apples

Yes, but what kind of apples?

edit: aww, it's just a joke :(



Glen Grant 10, Speyside, 40%, $48
Nose: Sweet jammy fruits, apples, pears, fruit stripe gum
Taste:  Sweet fruits, bubble gum, citrus-orange-y
Finish: light pepper, sweet gum
Rating: 82/100
Final Thoughts: Great example of a speyside. I like this better than any of the other highland/speyside ?Glens.? I may have just found a new table whisky. At %40 it?s shocking how much flavor it has.  

Laphroaig Quarter Cask, Islay, 48%, $60
Nose: tar, well used tobacco pipe, lemon, wood chips
Taste:  mud, earth, sweet fruits, toffee, butter
Finish: spicy peppers, honey
Rating: 85/100
Final Thoughts: Delicious dram by Laphroaig. A step above the 10, by far, but nowhere near as good as the 18 (my fave). Interesting and every taste/nosing gives me something different. But I don?t think it?s worth all the 90+ craziness around here.  



I'm trying to decide between this 41 year Glen Grant and this.

What do you recommend?



A fairly budget priced 10 year old from the speyside region, bottled at 40%vol. thanks to Snake_Byte for the sample.

Nose: fresh, apple drink, floral - greens + flowers, hay, hints of honey - all relatively subtle

Mouth: sweet, a bit honey, malt sugar

Finish: honey, sourness of red berries like red currants, grassy, sweet apples

Comments: A very subtle dram, very light and summery, good for a hot day to enjoy. Not much wrong here but too superficial and one dimensional for a above average score.

79 points



Review #49

Glen Grant 10 YO:  40%   $45  Tipsy?s Liquors

Color:  Amber +.5  Diluted Apple Juice, Quick Wide Tears.

Nose:  Fruit:  Red Apples, Pears, Vanilla, Honey, Dry Grass, Creamy Carmel, Tree Nuts.

Mouth Feel:  Light, Spicy, Thinly Viscous.

Taste:  Spicy Nutmeg, Cardamon, White Pepper, Vanilla, Lemon and Orange Zest, Grassy.

Finish:  Sweet, Honey, Dry, Almonds, Herbal Tea.

With Water:  N:  More soft floral Honeysuckle, Lemon and Orange, Vanilla and Nutty.
T:  Tames the Spice and Pepper, Vanilla and Honey.

Score:  Nose:  23,  Taste:  22,  Finish:  20,  Balance:  22  Total: 87

This is an easy to drink dram with plenty of fruit, nut and herb notes.  Not and overly complex whisky on the finish but a mild nose and a fairly light balanced scotch.    



Quite a surprise RD!
I lived in Italy for a while and a really young Glen Grant was the default malt in most of the bars in town. It was hideous....I can get some interest out of most single malts, but this was just undrinkable.

So bad in fact that I've avoided anything from Glen Grant ever since.....now it looks like I'll have to give it another try.

Thanks for the review, much appreciated sir.



Hello again everyone,

Back again today with some more of my adventure.

First thing I did today was go to a tour at Speyside Cooperage which was really interesting. You don't really get much for your ?3.50 (15 min video then a viewing gallery into the Cooperage) but it was pretty mesmerising to see the coopers at work. 

After that I just about had time for a tour at Glen Grant. 45 mins, ?5 and you get to taste the Major's Reserve and the 10yo. Since I was driving I took some away in a sample bottle and tried later. Guide seemed a little nervous and might have been new.

?

Glen Grant 40% (2016 packaging)

Colour: Gold

Body: Light

Nose: Fragrant, fruity and perfumed. Melon and banana, heady women's perfume, orange blossom, orange peel, lemon.

Taste: Soft. Sweet and perfumed, flowers, orange blossom, orange peel, fragrant oak, lemon pith, some chocolate into the finish.

Finish: Medium length. Chocolate and oak.

Notes: Nice nose, lackluster finish.

67/100

?

Next up was Macallan, which I was expecting big things from. Horst Leuning suggested it as his distillery to visit as a connoisseur. 1 hour, 30 mins, ?10 and 4 tasters (all pretty small but some rarer stuff too). Plus all four tasters I hadn't tried before. Very professional and friendly guide who knew a lot about just about everything.

?

Macallan 12 Fine Oak 40%

Colour: Gold

Body: Medium

Nose: Aromatic. Very malty and oily. Nutty, Sherry, honey, honeysuckle, little floral notes- Heather, milk chocolate. 

Taste: Oily, nutty, very malty, Sherry and vanilla, lots of honey, more oily malt, Macademia nut.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Nutty and then oily and cloying.

71/100

?

Macallan Amber 40%

Colour: Light Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Malty and oily, Sherry, wood spice, nutty, oily nuts, fresh barley, raisin, biscuit.

Taste: Very soft arrival, raisin, biscuit, malt, barley, spices building up, then some harsh oak and tannins, but recedes into the finish.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Oily malt and oaky spices.

69/100

?

Macallan 12 Sherry 40%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Lovely. Heavy and fat. Sherry, nuts, oily, malt, earthiness, raisin, dark chocolate.

Taste: Soft, Sherry, nutty, oily, oily malt, barley, raisin, honey, dark chocolate, good quality coffee.

Finish: Medium length. Good quality dark chocolate and great coffee.

Notes: Great stuff. Can't believe this was discontinued in most markets.

73/100

?

Macallan 18 Fine Oak 43%

Colour: Dark Gold

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Lovely, very perfumed, perfume, men's cologne, aromatic spice, cinnamon bark, honeysuckle, orange blossom, orange peel, orange juice.

Taste: Soft arrival, lots of honey, honeysuckle, floral, perfumed, manly cologne, musk, old oak, sandalwood, some tannins, Sherry, toffee, chocolate and dark coffee.

Finish: Medium/Long length. Toffee, honey and spiced oak.

Notes: I didn't know they did this. Thought the 21yo was the next step up from the 15 fine oak.

78/100

?

Another great day, hopefully more tomorrow. I think Glenfarclas and Glendronach.



Reviews #155-#159

Network Average: 74.5

Best Score: 91

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



We were just there a week ago during torrential downpours and the guy gave us some 16 to try also. Was quite good, but hard to stand against the ten. 

Did you try to get into Balvenie? It blows all other tours out if the water, but VERY hard to get in. If you're solo, it might be easier. ?35 for about 3.5 hours and 5 tastings  (6 of you join warehouse 24 for free before) 

Sign with number



Special thanks to /u/Porkpants81 for this interesting dram.

After a long day of wine trips and eating way, way too many great burgers, it was time to come back down to earth. Have something that more so not as filled with tons of beef.

And this dram definitely has less beef. Which is good, because if someone starts wasting steaks by putting them in perfectly good whisky, then I'm going to have to slap a bitch.

That's a promise.

Anyway, Glen Grant 10 is a new one for me. I've never had a chance to try a Glen Grant before, and I prefer to try this one over the NAS one. I don't know, I just like to have an age when I'm trying a distillery for the first time.

I think that's paranoia from extra beef in my diet. Or could just be the fact I ordered a burger with extra blue cheese followed by deep fried bacon wrapped cookie dough.

Anyway, let's see how this dram, called "The Best Beginner Dram" by multiple sources (of which I give none) holds up.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Colour: Gold

Nose: Passion fruit, mango, banana, perfume, old lemon candy, orange

Very fruity nose. Honestly, if you didn't know any better, you'd think this is a liquer from the nose. Or a fruit salad. And then you'd notice it is a drink, and then stop, because you're not a moron.

Taste: Orange, cinnamon, 7-Up, lemongrass, chemical seasoning

Simple flavours, though not bad ones. A tad too much citrus.

Also that fake chemical note is one that you'll notice in bad Pho.

Finish: Lemon, leather, almond, marzipan, yeast

Bit of smoke at the end is somewhat random. I appreciated it. The yeast I don't prefer in my mouth.

And you can quote me on that.

Conclusion: This is a decent beginner dram. Nothing too offensive, or hard to pick out, or hard to drink. And for those reasons I'll rate it in the mid-range. I think you can enjoy others just as well (Glenfiddich, Balvennie 12, Glenfarclas 12, etc.), so grab this is you're interesting in something a tad different, though mostly unremarkable.

73/100

Scotch review #180, Speyside review #55