The latest core expression from the Glenrothes catalogue, this 1998 vintage follows on from the previous 1994. This is the first bottling made with Gordon Motion as the Glenrothes Malt Master.

Brand: The Glenrothes, 1998

Type: Single Malt

Location: Speyside

Age: 14 Years

Alcohol: 43%

Date: 14July2013

Colour: Amber

Nose: Alcohol. Burn. Nose-hair singeing. After adding water there is lots of spice and vanilla. Malt gallore.

Taste: I couldn't drink it neat, too strong for my liking - had to add about 4 drops of water. Creamy, spicy. Tastes like a kitchen during the holidays - cinnamon, nutmeg

Finish: Pretty good finish, lengthy. Vanilla. Maybe a nutmeg ending, hard to discern. The finish is probably the best part. A nice dessert.

SCORE: 79/100

This whisky was given to me by a customer as a 'thank you' for perpetually maintaining his bicycles and putting up with his constant shenanigans of swapping parts. I was very impressed by the gesture, as it is pretty well known that I do not accept tips (unless the client absolutely insists). I was even more impressed that he took the time and interest to learn that I enjoy scotch whisky, and didn't just drop off a 6-pack of whatever beer he happened to see. 



Review #3

The Glenrothes 1998 - 43% ABV

Color: Light amber, apple juice.

Nose: Apples, caramel, lemon vanilla cake with heavy cream.

Palate: Very sweet at first and followed by bittersweet apples and some kind of spice that I can't quite place. Theres also vanilla, caramel and the hint of salt floating around http://i.imgur.com/2urFyM9.png.

Finish: It starts slow with a hint of winter spice then it heats up with caramel notes.

85/100

This is a really easy drinking scotch that I could enjoy without putting much effort into. I particularly enjoyed the sweet lemon on the nose--it reminds me of something, maybe lemon bars with a graham cracker crust.  Would I buy again? At $60 a bottle I would probably skip this one because I think there's better whiskies at that price point.

EDIT: speeling



I got my first shipment from r/Bottlesplitters!  This group is going to be my main source of reviews over the next few months, I?m excited to have five little bottles to review all in a row!

The Glenrothes 1998 ? 10 year ? 43% abv ? Speyside

Color: Dark nectar, or dark apple juice

Body: Light+, really clings to the glass

Nose: Apple right off the bat with some barley/cereal notes, which faded after a few nosings to reveal vanilla and more cereal notes.

Palate: Light, juicy, almost watery with apple and cereal.  Like Applejacks cereal, because it even has a little cinnamon spice in there.  After that initial flavor, it fades to a light vanilla and citrus on the back end.  A second taste made me realize there is a briny, salty flavor throughout that I really enjoyed.  

Finish: Lingering citrus and vanilla, with a little bit of spice right on the middle of the tongue.  Very nice!

This dram marks my first departure from the Highlands in a LONG time, so it was really nice for a change of flavor palette.  That being said, I enjoyed this enough but it almost seemed a little watered down for me.  I would definitely drink it in the summer months, it has a light and refreshing quality to it that I found appealing enough, but I don?t know if I?d buy a whole bottle.  My wife, however, thoroughly enjoyed it, which is a first for my reviews.  I look forward to drinking more Speysides so I have something to compare and contrast with!

82/100



As someone who hasn't had Applejacks in months because he's on a diet which prevents cereal, I am now REALLY looking forward to this. We eat what we like!

Nice review. We shall compare notes soon!



I would definitely drink it in the summer months

"In the summer months which can become quite hot?"

Yeah. I just quoted Craigslistlieder on /r/scotch.



Hi Scotchit! Today I?m here with a triple single malt review to begin a so-called ?Journey of the Glens?. For part 1, we?ll start in the Highlands with the Glendronach 15 Revival and make our way to Speyside for the Glenrothes 1998, and the Glenfiddich 15 Distillery Edition. On to the tastings!

Glendronach 15 Revival

Cost and info: At the local shop in NY, it?s approximately $89 for a bottle. Matured for 15 years in Oloroso Sherry casks. NCF, NC, 46% ABV

Nose: Leads with a huge sherry nose! Berries mixed with a syrupy sap, allspice, camomile, spearmint, and oak wood notes. It smells like walking into a forest of evergreens in the fall.

Palate: Dark berries stick around, cinnamon and gingerbread are the next notes to come out. Black currants. Herbal notes (rosemary makes a big presence), a citrusy sweetness, and a tad bit of a grass note comes out near the end. There also seems to be a small underlying sourness to this dram, but it?s not unpleasant to me. 

Finish: Long finish here. An almost peaty smoke develops early with aged wood notes. Wood sugars and leather really hold the finish together. White pepper and grass notes arrive to fill out the rest of the finish. Semi-complex, and really tightens up the nice aging on this malt

Conclusion: The sherry notes add something quite wonderful to this malt. In the beginning, I thought that this dram was a bit unbalanced, as the taste and finish definitely did not live up to the nose. After coming back to it a few days later, however, this dram seemed to mesh much better. Overall, the malt then maintains a beautiful crafted and enjoyable profile. I cannot say that I would buy the bottle for the price here, but if it was around $20 cheaper, I?d consider picking up a bottle. 

Score: 85/100

Glenrothes 1998 Vintage

Cost and Info: $54 for a 750mL, this malt is definitely sherried. The label on the Glenrothes bottles are less than helpful when it comes to dating each release, as the whisky can be ?checked? several months/years before it?s actually bottled. Case in point, my bottle was checked in 2009 but not bottled until 2011. Putting that confusion aside, it?s bottled at 43% ABV.

Nose: Lemon comes out first, blackberry jam, clementines, sweet raspberries, slight mint character, oak pops its head in brilliantly to give a spice to complement the sweetness. Vanilla and savory gingerbread spices.

Palate: Lemon tart comes full force, acidic orange marmalade, berry jam, butterscotch, baking spice. There?s also a wonderful Gl?hwein note, with anise seed and vanilla. Mouthfeel is slightly oily, almost chewy in a way as well.

Finish: The oak notes come back out and balance the lemony sweetness on the end. Very light citrus returns, with a mashup of lemon and blood oranges. Oregano and sage tread lightly and beautifully, and round out a butterscotch that ends things.

Conclusion: This malt seems beautifully balanced. A bit too sweet at times, but the oak and spices come in to temper them into a slightly complex dram. I?ve bought a bottle and I?m quite pleased with it. 

Score: 85/100

Glenfiddich 15 Distillery Edition

Cost and info: N/A in the U.S. Matured for 15 years in a combination of American and Spanish oak casks. 51% ABV. I must say, when I first heard about this bottling, I was excited. I hoped that a higher strength Glenfiddich would be a much more enjoyable experience than the rather flat 12 year. Let?s see how this dram lives up to expectations!

Nose: Mossy oak, citrusy fruits, namely tart apples and oranges. Herbal notes centered around basil develop, and there is a soft floral note. Slightly earthy, with a final hint of pineapple and mint! This nose is definitely wonderful!

Palate: Apples notes stick around. Caramels and oak develop. Blueberries, cinnamon, oranges round well together. Similar herbal notes to the nose, with added wood and earth.

Finish: Uh-oh. The first hit of the finish is unscented hand lotion. And an almost soap like taste that is horrible. It passes by after a short time, thankfully. After this initial shock, things settle and figs, heavy basil and other herbal notes arising from the oak come about. Oak smoke and pepper end the finish. Medium length finish.

Conclusion: The unscented lotion note in the finish really kills this dram for me. It seems like the guys at Glenfiddich tried to add a bit too much complexity and got a dull note stuck into their otherwise good malt. The balance of the flavors in the finish also stop meshing together, and everything seems a bit dissonant.  Further, the herbal notes throughout are a bit too much for me. Because of the issues with the balance and the finish, I cannot recommend this one. I?d rather have the Glenfiddich 15 Solera over this.

Score: 74/100



My first BottleSplitters review. When I read /u/BaroquenRecord's review of this a few days ago, and he said "Applejacks" it piqued my curiosity. I immediately moved it to the top of the reviueue queue. I am not disappoint.

Review #23 - Glenrothes 1998 43% ABV

The thin texture actually plays well with the big sweet flavors. I feel like this would be excellent with a few more years. Still enjoyable. Not my usual, but nice. Overall: 81/100



Applejacks!?! But it DOESN'T taste like APPLES!

Seriously though, now I have to get home and see if I taste it.



Glenrothes 1998, 43% ABV, Speyside

Color - dark gold

Nose -  banana chips, creamy, malty, vanilla wafers, slight tang, cinnamon, salty butter

Taste -  still creamy, winter spices, stewed cinnamon apples, slight oak

Finish - apple, black pepper

Overall:  

This bottle was acquired via /r/bottlesplitters.  Thanks to /u/BaronScarpia and the crew!

Immediate banana chips on the nose, for those of you who may not have had these, they are banana slices that are dehydrated. The banana evolves into a sweet creaminess with malt and vanilla wafers. Realization: this is like banana pudding.  On the palate this whisky is pretty thin, but tastes creamy.  There's also winter spices (cinnamon, nutmeg) stewed apples, and slight oak.  A medium finish, not leaving much taste behind.

83/100



Review # 17 - The Glenrothes 1998

Overview: My first experience with Glenrothes was when a female friend of my wife killed my bottle of Glenfiddich 12 (80% remaining) and then replaced it with Select Reserve - It was a welcome replacement which lasted me around 6 months and played huge part in developing my palate subconsciously.

Glenrothes 1998 Speyside Single Malt - ABV 43%

Enjoyed Neat

Dram: http://i.imgur.com/7sofuLA.jpg

Color: Amber - Thin and slow legs

Nose: Bitter Sweet Apple Pie, Acidic, Jam, Spice, Soft Fruit, Cream, Faint Oak Hiding, Canned Pineapple Juice, Citrus, Biscuits, Vanilla, No nose burn at all. I can inhale deeply, refreshingly light fruitiness.

Body: Light-Medium Oily

Taste: Swee.. No wait.. Bitter Apples and Citrus then a hit of Heat! Mouth feel thickens. Cinnamon and Spice. Light Cream, Black Pepper heats up comfortably

Finish: Medium Finish, Vanilla and Nutmeg, Apple remains, Pepper, Nice comfortable mouth tingle! Enjoyable and Spicy. Light and Refreshing.

Summary This is my second malt from this distillery, my first was the Select Reserve I've gotta say I enjoyed this more. It's only around $5-10 or so price difference (from Select Reserve) but I think the age really shines here. Enjoyable Stuff. Not too terribly complex but it works. Enjoyable nose, palate and finish, well balanced. If I had to pick one thing that this reminds me of its freshly baked warm apple pie out of the oven with a scoop of vanilla ice cream. Can you tell I'm a fan of apples? :D - I buy Apple Juice in bulk from a local press.

I probably won't buy a full bottle right now due to budget restraints, but I wouldn't turn away from adding a bottle to my collection. As a fairly newcomer to Speysides this was a fun one to try out.

Score

84/100 



Err, mean that the difference in price between their NAS offering is not far from the price of this bottle. 1998 @ $45 and Select Reserve @ $40 or so, worth it to just try and get the 1998.

Not getting the comment about being serious though lol



I think you forgot the most major piece of flavor I get from the 1998. It's lemony, for sure, but right after that my mouth gets pummeled with the taste of cereal. It makes it unique and very drinkable. 

Thanks for the review!



Great review, and gorgeous shots as usual.  This sounds very pleasant.  Haha since I moved out here to upstate NY I've been spoiled by the selection and quality of apples... and apple pie is probably among the greatest things ever created by man.  Along with whisky.

Can't wait to get involved with bottlesplitters this month!



Thanks, yeah its a nice one I enjoyed it. 

apple pie is probably among the greatest things ever created by man. Along with whisky.

http://i.imgur.com/Q0Yi6GS.gif

Definitely! Welcome to bottlesplitters, it's been great so far! :)



Hey all, so, long time lurker, part time lover commenter tvraisedme here with a group of reviews. I will be dropping several reviews in one sitting for as long as it takes to go through the whole cabinet. So: #4-#14!

The Glenrothes 1998 (speyside), 43%, $60
Nose: Sweet, honeyed fruit
Taste: Sweet, fruity, bit of saltiness
Finish: surprisingly spicy with a sourness (like a reverse sour candy), lingering.
Rating: 80/100
Thoughts: Not very complex on the nose and tongue, but a strong finish. Very much a speyside. A little disappointing, but a step above the Select Reserve.



I thought it was a little over-hyped for the price (bout $60 around me). I don't have my notes in front of me, but I do remember being disappointed. It was one of my early bottles, so it's probably time to review again. I'll do it tonight. This is going slower than I originally planned because I decided to also taste everything again along with my notes to make sure I had the right flavors.

Recently, I've only been using people's opinions/notes as a kind of try/don't try. I typically ignore the ratings until I've tasted because I don't want them to influence my initial tastings anymore.



Honestly, I've had about 3 drams of HP12, but I've never reviewed any of them because it tastes like butts every time, and I assume it's a bad dram/my palate's shot.

I'm starting to think maybe it just does taste like ass sweat, but everyone else loves it for some reason. 

I've got a Highland Park super-vertical coming soon, so we'll see.



yay my favorite cheapie (actually one of my favorite, regardless of price)

scotch doesnt always have to kick you in the face imo.



I found Laddie 10 to be really strong in the pepper notes. Too much for me actually. I prefer more typical Islay's.

Unpeated my ass indeed lol.



Review #92

Glenrothes is a distillery from Speyside that produces whisky that they market by vintage in lieu of age. I really enjoy the shape of the bottle and the styling of their label, but I wish the box it comes in didn?t have windows to let light in (Looking at you too Campbeltown ?_? ). Anyways, down to the brass tacks:

The Glenrothes 1998 (Bottled 2009), 43% ABV, Speyside

Nose: Lemon juice melted into caramel, baking spice. Floral? fresh linens and drier sheets.

Palate: Spicy menthol, cinnamon, paprika bite. Intensely sweet. Vanilla, lemon, Sugar in the raw, touch of ginger and salt.

Finish: Bitter, salty. Dry bitter floral on the sides of the tongue. Numbing metallic sugars up front. Mouthwatering salt and caramel.

85/100

When I started out with this bottle I didn?t like it much. If I would have done a review of the first pour it would have been in the 70?s for sure, but as I?ve made my way through the bottle I?ve REALLY come to like this stuff. It?s very decadent on the palate, but falls short in the nose and finish. Definitely going to look into trying some of their higher end bottlings!



I love me some drier sheets <3

Nice review!



I'm thinking a nice vintage of Bounce.

Cheers!



Decided to pick up the Glenrothes sample pack at the store out of curiousity. I over paid for it - $40 for 300 ml of whiskey, however its less than what I would spend at a bar and potentially saves me from having to deal with a whole bottle I don't want! So without further ado, my review.

Review #48

The Glenrothes Select Reserve (80 proof)

Nose: cinnamon flavored instant oatmeal, green apple jolly rancher, unsweetened iced tea and lemon, butter cream frosting

Taste: oatmeal, apples, cinnamon and tea with some toasty pastry in the background; thin mouthfeel 

Finish: short, burnt toast and white balsamic vinegar

Overall: Faint, but there is a very nice tea note and subtle desert sweetness. Shows signs of either under maturity or poor quality casks. Something good is here, but being watered down to 80 proof and being bombarded by lesser quality malt doesn't help. Better than your widely available blended scotch, but not by much.

Rating: Fine (73/100)

Review #49

The Glenrothes 2001 Vintage (Distilled 2001, Bottled 2013, 12 years old, 86 proof)

Nose: raisin and junior mints, vanilla, honey dipped cigar, brown sugar, earl grey 

Taste: honey and raisin up front, followed by cedar box, tobacco and cocoa nibs mid palate, followed by cookie spread and coffee; thin mouthfeel, bit of tannin 

Finish: short, sweet tobacco spices, savory herbs, light roast coffee 

Overall: Much better. Still simple, but it is much richer. Surprising spice notes interlaced with sweet honey and wood. Taste almost like if Balvenie and Glenmorange had a baby. Unfortunately, the richness fades away quickly and you are left with something underwhelming. A very good 12 year old but could be much better. Still an enjoyable dram, but people who are adverse to lighter whiskies might want to stay away.

Rating: Damn Good (81/100)

Review #50

The Glenrothes 1998 Vintage (Distilled 1998, Bottled 2013, 15 years old, 86 proof)

Nose: lemon pith and orange pulp, Cointreau, melon hard candy, ceylon cinnamon, chlorophyll 

Taste: orange and cinnamon candies followed by Campari; slightly syrupy

Finish: short to medium length of citrus pith, fresh herbs, and bitter greens 

Overall: Not my cup of tea. Like whiskies with overwhelming citrus, spice and vegetable notes? This one is for you. It is predominately bourbon cask, and showcases just what the spirit can do by itself, but sometimes things can get highlighted that don't just mesh well as delicious nor is there a sherry cask to provide balance. The 12-year old is better but I would rather drink this than the Select Reserve. 

Rating: Good (76/100)



I actually bought this same pack last week :) I really enjoyed the 2001 and ended up buying the big bottle of it yesterday.   

Any suggestions of other similar ones I should try? 