Quick review time. Had this dram at The Gage in Chicago a few weeks ago. They've got THHandy and Saz18 on the menu for $14, Blue Label for $50, and this for $35. I'll never understand bar prices, that's why I generally drink at home.

A few seconds before I snapped this photo I knocked the glass over and caught it before it spilled (hence the legs around the whole glass.)

Highland Park 25

N: Sherry. Malt. Cocoa. Dried fruits. Musty oak. Salty used book store. 

P: Custardy. Salted caramel. Bright tart fruits. Oak. Vanilla. 

F: Oak. Cherry. Musty apple/pear. Cherry sours. More wood. 

90/100

Highland Park entirely disappointed me with their 12 and 15, but the 18 and 25 are both great. To be honest I was hoping for some light smoke that I've come to enjoy in the HP18, but I didn't find any of it here.

It didn't detract, though, and was damn fine. I don't think I'd buy this to just have around the house-- it wasn't interesting enough. However as a gift or special occasion bottle I could see picking one up. 



Thanks for the review! This one is on my list. 

I agree with bar prices...they always seem all over the place. Some drams will be great value wise, and some will be awful. 



I wrung the cap loose from the bottle, and found inside:

This is far better than HP 18, and more interesting in the flavour dimension than the Signatory 21 CS I have, but ultimately reminds me of  Johnnie Walker Blue--less interesting than its price.  Try the independent bottlings!

Rating: 88/100

20th review

Homepage | Reviews | Buy @ Wine-Searcher



how funny that there's a bunch of people that did the same HP25 review at almost the same time. 

Reminds you of Blue Label... so... not worth it considering the price?



A quick review. 48.1% ABV.

Score: 91/100

Wonderfully done. I could be getting a cold but the nose wasn't quite what I hoped for. Otherwise this was amazing. You won't regret it. 



I was going to hold off a while before I got to this, but I realised that I'm up to my 90th review here on Scotchit, so I thought I'd make this one a little special. Enormous thanks to thetrumpetplayer for the sample!

Highland Park 25. Isle of Orkney single malt, matured for 25 years, partially in first-fill sherry casks, and bottled at 48.1% ABV. Local bottle price: $275 for 700mL.

Nose: All the elegant sweetness that gives these older sherried whiskies their price tags. Vanilla custard, juicy prunes, cranberries, dried apricots, and old, damp oakiness. There's some sea spray saltiness and just a light hint of wood smoke, softly countering the dominating sherried notes and bringing a dimension of vitality.

Palate: Body starting off at medium, but gradually creeping its way up to full the longer it sits in your mouth. Creamy desserts; burnt sugar, toffee, cr?me br?l?e, and more prunes on the front of the palate. Perhaps what is most remarkable is how they've emphasised the wonderful effects of sherry casks, while subduing the oft-confronting tannins (such as is common in whiskies like Glenfarclas).

Finish: Sherberty candied sourness, which is surprising, but welcomed. Black liquorice, Turkish delight, and the slightest touch of honey. A certain element of peat providing a lingering weight on the back palate. Rich and complex at the start, but unfortunately falls away to a medium length. Slightly disappointing, but only in comparison to how marvelous it was on the nose and palate.

Highland Park is known for their exceptional balance of flavours. Indeed, what stands out for me is their unique balancing of the casks here. The sherry brings forth the delicious winey sweetness we all love, but the bourbon casks (presumably) seem to be playing a role in crafting the character of the whisky, rather than imparting their own flavours. None of the malty vanilla and heavy woodiness from old bourbon casks, but instead, lifting the dense wine flavours into something more spritely.

This would work well as a daily dram with dinner, when you want to have a dram with the curry leftovers but don't want to waste the good stuff... but really, if you're ever looking to spend $275 on a special occasion bottle, HP25 is definitely worthy of your consideration.

93/100



Mystery Sample picked and poured by my wife. Tasting notes messaged to /u/HawkI84 for reveal.
?   

Color :   

Nose : Dark caramel, strong sherry notes & finishes off with strong bourbon notes. The nose reminded me a lot of a nicely aged bourbon.    

Taste : Prominent oak, milk chocolate, ripe juicy Washington apples, PX sherry, paprika & cayenne pepper. 

Finish : Bold characters of tons of sherry, spice & oak.     

?  

Guess : 110-115 proof, 8-12 years, active sherry barrel, IB Bunnahabhain 12?

Reveal : Highland Park 25 Years 2008 96.2 Proof    

Conclusion : 3/5  



I guessed highland park on this. Every Bunna I have had gave my palate some salt. And had you scored it higher, I would have guessed that bottle because it stood out for me (especially since I have the exact one in the bunker) when u/hawki84 reviewed with a crazy high score and got me excited and grateful that it was worth the $$. 

Thank you!! 



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another review.  People are always asking me if I've had Highland Park 25 year old 96.2 proof.   I kept seeing this bottle on the shelf at my local liquor store, seeing the high price tag and thinking "the things you own end up owning you".  Well, sticking feathers up your butt does not make you a chicken!  so I got some and here is my review.

I am Jack's complete lack of surprise.  The nose made me have a near life experience.  It's very good of course.  Better than the 18?  I'd say not.  But, we are all part of the same compost heap, so I had to try it.  After all this is my life and it's ending one minute at a time.   On a long enough timeline, the survival rate for everyone drops to zero.  It was expensive but who needs food when you have a refrigerator full of condiments?  Bottom line, delicious and good quality, but not worth the pricetag.  It's not a beautiful and unique snowflake, but it's quite good. After drinking a good Scotch, the volume of the rest of the world is turned down.

93/100



"the things you own end up owning you". Well, sticking feathers up your butt does not make you a chicken!

Someone watched Fight Club recently :)



After drinking a good Scotch, the volume of the rest of the world is turned down.

Truer words have never been written on /r/Scotch.



truer words  

I love HP, I think though my biggest beef with them is that they play middle field (albeit really well) but most of the time this doesn't allow them to have many distinguishing characteristics IMO.  

ps. I know nothing about baseball 



It probably isn't a good analogy, but it's my understanding of a baseball player that plays mid field (does a little bit of everything). 

Again, I know nothing about baseball, so yeah...Go Lions!



Nice Tyler review style =)  

I've just started on my first bottle of HP 18, which I'm finding to be quite amazing.  In fact, I'm probably going to have to force myself to ration it or I'll be staring at an empty bottle.

Do you think price had an effect on your perception of it?  It's a little sad to think 18 might really be the end of the line.



Hi Scotcheteers! I'm a fan of Highland Park, and after I had several regular and independent bottlings I'm now happy to taste the

Highland Park 25

Islands, 48.1%

color: mahogany

nose: sherry, fennel, soft peat smoke, pungent, oak, cola, caramel, walnut, stollen, malt, a few drops of water bring out citrus and honey

taste: soft peat, honey, sherry, oak, blood oranges, trail mix, redcurrants, cola, freshly made caramel, malt, spices, especially pepper

finish: long, in the beginning hot and spicy, then nicely soft and smoky

Very rich. Well balanced between sherry sweetness, peat smoke and oaky spices and dryness. Unfortunately quite expensive. I have a catalog from an online retailer from 2012. Recently I checked the new catalog of this shop: The price of HP 25 has gone up 50% in two years! This is sick. I stick with the younger HP's.

90/100



Thanks.

It's more complex and richer. More balanced, the smoke is better integrated into the other notes, especially compared to the 12 yo.



The HP price went up when HP started winning a bunch of awards.  I think it was also Michael Jackson's favorite scotch (the taster who popularized single malt scotch).  His death (near the time of the death of the pop star) also seems to have marked a bump in popularity.

I used to score a decent bottle of a younger bottling for around $40.  Those days are gone.



Highland Park is an Edrington (same company as Macallan) owned island distillery from the isle of Orkney. This is a bottling that, from what I can tell from the proof, is from circa 2007/8. 48.1% abv.

Nose - Really nicely sweet, sherried, and oceany. Raisins, red grapes, sea salt, clove, black pepper, allspice, milk chocolate, fruitcake, hints of smoke and cardamom. Good depth and balance, though it seems a bit restrained.

Palate - Starts sweet and sherried, with the red grape, raisin, and fruitcake notes, with some gunpowder, sea salt, allspice, clove, and black pepper as it progresses. Medium body - feels pretty ?smooth?. Very nice depth, balance, and complexity, though.

Finish - Here?s where it almost justifies the price. Dark chocolate, raisin, clove, allspice, black pepper, light smoke, and the sea-salty note all come together in a really nice way here, and linger a while.

Delicious stuff. More heavily sherried than the 12 or 18, and that extra sherry-ness really works well with the light smoke and coastal notes at work here. The finish is fantastic, and develops and lingers forever, it seems. This stuff is quite pricey, but if you?re looking for a splurge bottle you could do a lot worse, unless this stuff has dropped in quality since this one was bottled (which is quite possible given Edrington?s tendencies).

94/100



Ha, don't tempt me! That Highland Park 16 is phenomenal. 

I have a multitude of your samples reviewed in need of upload, I'll do so soon hopefully. 



nice review!

what's something like this cost?



een sad to watch them go full Macallan on their prices

Well Macallan 25 is like $1500 now, so really there still just 1/3 Macallan. Not to nitpick or anything.



Interesting experience with this one, for me. First time I cracked the bottle I was underwhelmed. I expected it to be better in general, but on top of that, I had heard such great reviews. My first couple of glasses (within the first week of opening the bottle) were just okay; I found it sort of light and weak, overall.

So I left it alone for a while, maybe a month or two. And when I came back - WOW! It was/is delicious. Much richer and more depth than the first time around. So wonderful. The kind of stuff that justifies rave reviews.

Not sure if it was me (something I had eaten, etc.) or maybe the whisky has changed with a little air, but man what a difference. I haven't had that experience to that degree with anything else. I'm talking like a rating of 79 to 92 kind of thing, very roughly speaking.



Hi everyone,

Some more Highland Park today for my 300th Scotch review! It?s the older ones. I realised thpough that I totally lied when I said I haven?t reviewed any yesterday, because I have. I reviewed the 21 year old, which would fit in nicely here before the 25, which is what we?ll start with today.

All of these are samples for the miniature pack I got, or samples I bought from Master of Malt. 

?

Highland Park 25 48.1%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Wow, old and sophisticated. Intense liquorice, liquorice allsorts, very dry oak, bitter orange marmalade, Seville orange, orange oil, grapefruit pith and peel, spicy European oak, a perfumed note, dried heather, fresh car leather, old oloroso Sherry, some cherry. Over time more of the sweet and heathery notes take over with some tobacco and a little smoke.

Water: More fresh and citrusy again. Lime and orange juice,

Taste: Soft arrival, quickly building sweetness, Sherry, beautiful orange and fresh cherry combo, some spicy oak coming through, European oak, very oily and full, grapefruit flesh, liquorice, clove, lemon, lime and orange citrus, old Sherry oak, more spices develop, ginger. Great development.

Water: More citrusy, grapefruit, orange juice acidic, lime juice, various citrus peels, very acidic and going quite oaky actually. A bit out of balance.

Finish: Long length. Fresh, mouth watering, citrus, orange, spice, quite a bit of oak.

Very fresh and citrusy, retains it?s citrus-y flavours while having the older Sherry notes present too, just a little out of balance at times, especially the finish (Yes, I know. I?m fussy)

84/100

?

Let?s do an indie before we get to the 30?s.

?

Highland Park 1985 Mackillop's Choice 51.6%

Colour: Gold

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Refill style. Fruity and intense, natural with sweety shop. Strawberry laces, Percy pigs (M&S sell ?em in the UK), orange, mango, watermelon, a little grapefruit. Huge oak presence in the background, a LOT of oak- Lots of liquorice, some clove. A small smoky note- Sooty liquorice root.

Water: Softer, less sweety shop and more liquorice and oak. White grape, elderflower, a little mango still.

Taste: Sweet hit then recedes then a gradual development. Quite sweet with tropical fruit- mango, oak is there, again a LOT of it- Dry old oak, dry liquorice, oaky spice- ginger, clove and white pepper and a lot of tannins, then watermelon juice, a little dusty yeast note. Ash into the finish.

Water: Creamier then more sharp old oak and the yeast note (a little mango) becomes more apparent and harsher, especially into the finish. After a bit of time the oak takes over the yeast and sharp tannins and spices prevail.

Finish: Medium/Long length. Liquorice root and watermelon gradually die away. With water it goes a bit weird with a kind of white wine-y yeast and sharp oaky spice.

Like the 15 year old with a tonne more oak! An absolute liquorice bomb. Distilled 1985, bottled 2014. 29 years old, cask 370.

Doesn't swim well! Think this is a little over (Euro) oaked, could have been bottled a few years earlier.

75/100

?

Here we go, older. I?ve always wanted to compare the two bottlings of the 30yo, one at the higher strength and the new one at lower strength.

?

Highland Park 30 (New) 45.7%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Sweeter and fresher than the old 30yo. Old oak, old Sherry, worn leather, sweet black cherry, black cherry jam, vanilla pod, marzipan, dried orange peel, sweet orange marmalade.

Taste: Sweet arrival with lots of black cherry, marzipan, old Sherry, heather, spicy oak with ginger and liquorice, amazing, oily, fat and full, complex sweetness, orange oil, old oils and incredible balance, softer into the finish.

Finish: Long length. Marzipan, vanilla sweetness, black cherry, some oak. More subtle and soft.

Overall, sweeter and more straightforward than the old 30yo, but less complex. More 1st fill Sherry maybe?

85/100

?

Highland Park 30 (Old) 48.1%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Much more austere, dry and oaky than the new 30yo. An old school style. A lot of oak, very dry, black cherry gateaux, black cherry syrup, complex herbs and herbal notes, thyme, basil, dried lavender, dried flowers, homemade paper, garden shed, old tools, 90% dark chocolate, good quality black coffee, a great dark bitterness.

Really rewards taking time with it.

Water: Much fresher with some citrus coming out, orange citrus, earthy with some heathery smoke.

Taste: Amazing arrival on sweeter sherry, perfect balance, some smoke, old heather, dried lavender, pressed flowers, complex spice and oak building, ginger and liquorice, black cherry, orange oil, syrupy and oily, leather and tobacco come through with some outdoorsy smoke, chewy and just keeps evolving on the dark cherry theme with perfect balance.

Water: Oaky arrival, complex oak, dry and austere, more earthy and smoky, lots more heather, black cherry still there, spicy oak with ginger and black pepper.

Finish: Long length. More smoke, some complex spice, heather, oak, sherry and more black cherry.

More smoke and more complex than the old 30yo. Amazing stuff, incredibly elegant arrival.

88/100

?

And the big finale! 40 year old Highland Park.

?

Highland Park 40 48.3%

Colour: Dark Amber

Body: Full

Nose: Old. It speaks of a different time. Powerful, emotional and truly superb. A huge influence of the oak and time, spicy with a quite powerful black pepper, sea salt, smoke still there, put out campfire, dunnage, great chocolate-y-ness with lovely dark chocolate and chocolate cake, dried black cherry, oily liquorice, old oils and herbs.

Coming back a second time there's a fantastic earthy note, just wow. 93 for the nose.

Water: More chocolatey and earthy. An earthy smoke, roasted coffee beans.

Taste: Powerful arrival, huge oak and perfect sweetness, dried cherry, blistering oak, old smoke, very spicy black pepper and sea salt, stays and stays with building complex spice, then some more sweetness and herbal notes, leather, tobacco, dried heather, burnt heather, pressed flowers, layers of chocolate, strong black coffee here too, more complex oak. Lovely chewy mouthfeel especially towards the finish.

Water: Spicy, intense, loads of black pepper, then recedes to leave sweet sherry, fresh orange, orange oil, very complex sweetness, heathery smoke, much more earthy into the finish.

Finish: Long/Very Long length. Old dried cherry, tobacco, very soft old Sherry, then oily liquorice, oily smoke and soft black pepper.

Words can't really do it justice. Noses just wonderfully, maybe the best nose I've had on a whisky, and if the taste was on par it would be my first 93, but of course, after 40 years there?s a lot of oak on the palate. 

90/100

?

So, Highland Park is a great distillery, despite being reasonably available.

The old stuff is amazing, but the big question is: Is it worth the money?

Highland Park prices have risen very steeply the last few years. When Ian Buxton went crazy and put a load of HP?s in 101 whiskies, he said that Highland Park 40 was ?800, now you?re lucky to find it under ?2000 if not more. The 30yo was ?250 a while ago, now most of them are going for ?400. It?s had an effect on the other bottlings too, even the 18yo I bought in Tesco for ?74 is now ?100 everywhere (if they have it at all).

In some cases, yes, they are worth it. The 21 is maybe the best value for the older stuff, but the 18 is was great at the price I got it for. The 12 is great value for money when it?s on deal too.

?

Thanks for reading! Here?s to the next 100!!

Reviews #299-#303(!)



Full Disclosure Disclaimer: I currently work as a Brand Ambassador for Penderyn Distillery. The views expressed here are purely my own and do not reflect the views of Penderyn Distillery or The Welsh Whisky Company. I try to maintain as much objectivity as I can but feel free to take my reviews with as big a pinch of salt as you like. Furthermore, I have never accepted free samples from anyone in the whisky industry, but have bought bottles or samples with my money, bringing a different set of biases. Also, my rating scale is NOT based on a Parker type wine scoring scale or a school/college/university % or A-F grade score. I apologise for any seemly low or 'bad' scores given with my system and am sorry I can't say only nice things. Please keep in mind that I am ethically compromised and am unable to produce 100% unbiased reviews.

?

Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/highlandpark25-40(300!)

Network Average: 74.6

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



Great reviews, I find your conservative point awarding much more useful and informative those where everything gets 88-94.

Big fan of HP myself, the 12 has become my go-to with some of the older stuff representing some of the better bottles in my cabinet.



How do you do your scores?

Accumulation of sub-scores or is it just an overall score?



Well folks, it's time to put my monocle back in, pump up my New England accent, get the tails on and have my man servant shine up the old top hat. It's time to review a Barn Burner! (Or rather a bank burner, or a wallet singer).

This past weekend I had decided that I wasn't going to drink, as the weekend prior I had overdone it (see 10 Scotches). And it would be hard, as I was visiting my buddies cottage in the Muskokas, but I was going to be strong.

That was before the Jell-O shots came out, or my buddy received a bottle of Highland Park 25 for his birthday.

So much for not drinking. My life is so hard.

As a heads up, I did have a break between the shots and the Scotch, made sure to have water, and only had 1 Jell-O shot before consuming, so we should be good.

Region: Island

Abv: 48.1%

Price: $374.95 (CAD)

Colour: Copper

Nose: Honey, peat, violet, orange, burn, lemon, tobacco, sour candy, oak, donuts, vanilla

As is Highland Park fashion, there's a lot of different, distinct flavours going on here. Very sweet. For me the sherry has mixed into the bourbon smells and created other smells (see the violet and the sour candy), however you can tell it's there. Well balanced, I took quite awhile nosing this one.

Taste: Pepper, nutmeg, lots of wood, grapes, tons of salt brine, grapefruit, corn, lemon, alcohol burn, molasses, dry cantaloupe, raspberry

Ah, there's the sherry influence, more strong now in the grapes and the raspberry. Each sip is another different set of flavours, and I'm really enjoying this. That being said, I'm wishing for something unique to come out of it. And that's somewhat of a BS complaint, really, but a complaint none the less.

Really, I'm trying to nit pick now.

Finish: Wood, cherry, arugula, sour, shortbread, strawberry, dry, pear

Medium length finish, which I think would be longer and more full if this was the proper version that's over 50% Abv. Very dry, and the cherry/strawberry is the last of the sherry influence. Which I'm happy about, as I wasn't really looking for a sherry bomb this time. At least for me, it wasn't a sherry bomb, I've had stronger ones.

Conclusion: I've said it about Highland Park before, and I'll say it again; They are the classic Scotch profile, through and through. Is that bad? Hell no. This hit all the nice flavours, was smooth, tasted great and was well balanced.

That being said, I lean towards my high end Whisky having something distinct about it. Something that I can't find anywhere else. And that's the minor issue I have with Highland Park 25. We'll see what the future brings about, as I've ordered an IB Highland Park Cask Strength for next month, so perhaps that will show me the error of my ways.

89/100

Scotch review #59, Island Review #5



New England accent? Pah, what does that even mean? ;-)

I'm a little disappointed, honestly, I thought you'd be raving about this one. 



I picked up a bottle of this from the LCBO in Port Carling a few weeks ago. At the time it was the only one in the province to have any, and they only had 3. I wonder where the third one went.

Yes, I plan to review it soon.



Who knows. Right now they are all over the place in Toronto, so perhaps you bought right before the shipments.

Look forward to your review.



Had the pleasure of tasting this at Whiskey Fest last year (the gentleman at the table must have saved it for the later part of the nights visitors which is a total rare treat)

Loved it! 