Good morning Scotchit.

As I was asked in a thread, here are my notes for the three bottles in the HP Valhalla collection that have been released so far. I don't do scores, so there are just tasting notes.

Thor:

Nose: Salted caramel, evergreen leaves, light mint and menthol rounded out with a hint of woody smoke.

Palate: Juicy oranges and lemon, hot ginger and cinnamon, fruitcake richness, black liquorice and more wood smoke.

With water: A few drops calms down some of the heat, revealing ferns, damp forest and woody spice on the nose, and more caramel and polished wood on the body. It still has a big hit of warmth, although it?s more ginger and cinnamon than it is alcoholic burn.

Finish: Tongue-tingling heat, sweet wood, muddy paths and fallen leaves. As it fades, a dark but sweet liquorice root note kicks in.

Loki:

Nose: Spiced apple, oat cakes, floral hints and waxy wood polish. Sharp apple appears after a while (boiled down sour apple juice) with lime boiled sweets, green anis and porridgey grain.

Palate: Soft and juicy to start, with apples and custard, turning woody, smoky and spicy in the middle, with rhubarb and custard boiled sweets, and lots of sour wood. Wood builds through the palate, becoming sweeter and ending on a dark spicy note.

Finish: Apple skins, smoking driftwood and sweet vanilla, with a hot cinnamon and clove tingle.

Freya:

Color: Gold. Not green. That's just the bottle...

Nose: Sweet butter icing, hints of coconut and cream, with something a little sour and slightly pungent hiding underneath ? Sauvignon Blanc? Some gentle oaky notes develop in the glass along with lemon curd, nutmeg and apple skin.

Palate: Yellow wine gums, sweet oak, oaky spice and some leafy green notes to start. Lots of woody flavours develop, with some darker notes hiding behind freshly sawn oak, bark and damp twigs. Over the top of all of that is a gentle, savoury wood smoke.

Finish: Gentle spice, chamois leather, coal dust and lingering fruitiness and perfumed oak.

I tasted these at work (it's a hard life) and didn't end up buying any of them - they didn't really hit any of the things I really like in Highland Parks.

However, at release the Thor got abuse from the whisky community and sold slowly; the Loki got less abuse and sold a bit faster; the Freya sold out pretty quickly, and the price of the other two has started to go up. It seems other people liked them a lot more than I did...

Decent drams, but not for me.

I wrote a bit more than just tasting notes over on the work blog:
Thor, 
Loki and
Freya



The way I heard it from the HP senior brand ambassador was that the entire Valhalla range is a way to get rid of some peated malt that they contracted their maltings company to produce as an experiment. 

It didn't taste like Highland Park despite using the same peat, so they've just been sitting in casks for a while.

I guess the idea was that if the maltings could be done on the mainland, then they could shut down their malting floor on Orkney and save a significant amount of cash. Luckily/unluckily, it didn't work out.



From having a quick look at the Malt Whisky Year Book it seems that Loki is the one you're thinking about - it was made using malt dried with mainland peat, rather than the usual Orcadian stuff. Freya and Thor are just regular HP malt afaik.

Almost all of their malt already comes from the mainland, it's just the location of where they get the peat that looks to have been the experiment. The malting floor on Orkney is only really for the tourists - it only produces a tiny amount of malt.

Edit: I'm doubting myself now - I'm sure the above is right but am looking into how much malt they produce on site...



That's what I'm thinking, but they also say they use 20% peated malt, which is a lot of malt to do in their maltings. I'm investigating...

Edit: Actually, I've found some sources - you are, of course, right. I have no idea how they get 20% of their malt done via floor malting and still charge what they do for the 12yo...



I know enough brand ambassadors not to trust them as far as I can throw them :)

I'm helping at an event with Daryl Haldane soon, so I'll make sure to ply him with booze and extract the details after we're finished...



I got more wood than peat, with some woody smoke and earthiness. Definitely some vegetal bits and pieces in there.

The 15 is about the least peaty whisky I've had of theirs, so if that's your reference point I can see it being a shock. The 15 is also discontinued over here, which is annoying as it's my favourite.



By 25 years most of the peatiness will have matured away - it's all about the oak. It's very nice, but a bit pricy for me.

The 21 is a bit more of a beast - higher strength and much more oomph. Worth a try if you like the fightier end of the HP range.



Hello /r/scotch - here with my seventh review. Highland Park has always been one of my favorite distilleries, so I was excited to be able to try some of this at my local bar as I was thinking about buying a bottle. I paid $18 for a half pour.

Nose The peat is fairly prominent on the nose compared to some of the other highland parks I've had e.g. 12, 15, 18, 25. Lots of salt/brine here, but also a surprising amount of citrus which is not something I was expecting. 

Mouthfeel Wondeful - thick as honey

Palate Again, lots of peat here for a HP - a bit too much for me actually given I'm not a huge peat guy. Remains very salty on the palate with just a bit of that citrus from the nose coming through - almost as bright as lemon juice. This would certainly be the closest to an Islay of any HP I have tried in terms of the amount of peat on the nose/palate.

Finish Dry finish a tad on the short side - the peat and brine remain the predominant elements here. The oak pops a little more on the finish - I didn't get much of it on the palate or nose.

Balance Putting my peat bias aside and trying to rate this objectively, I"d have to say it is nicely balanced between the peat/salt/citrus elements. The reason I love HP is it can give me just a little bit of peat with a lot of other notes whereas in Islays the peat just blows away most other flavors for me. The Loki continues that tradition of balancing the peat out with everything else, but in this case, it is a bit heavy-handed for my personal taste compared to their other offerings.

Rating 87/100 - A solid dram. I suspect someone who enjoys peat more would add maybe an additional 5-6 points on to the score, but to me it's a bit heavy-handed compared to the other HP offerings I love. I'll be reviewing the HP25 coming up, but in short, I feel that this is like the HP25's younger/wilder days before the additional maturation in oak tamed some of the characteristics of the Loki. I'm definitely glad I tried it before buying as it changed my mind on buying a bottle - but I would still recommend trying this one if you're in to Island style whiskys. 

Value for the money I do not believe the Loki warrants its going price of $250+. Owning a bottle of HP25, I would choose to buy that one every time over the Loki. You can get some great scotch for $250 or less, so it's hard to say the Loki is worth it at that price. I would be more tempted at around $100-150.



You sum up my thoughts on these special releases from HP really well. I want to try it. I mean, it's ~15 year CS HP, should be tasty. However... seems like you're paying more for the little boat than the whisky.

Not to mention I picked up Highland Park 8 year CS G&M for $110 after taxes, and it was a rare, ex-bourbon cask only Highland park, so I can't see myself trying any of the Asgardian's anytime soon.

Also, HP30 is like hitting heaven if you like the 25.



Highland Park Loki Aged 15 Years, 48.7% ABV

90/100

A cut above the rest, but not worth the price tag.



Nice review.  

How much did you pay for the bottle?



A cut above the rest, but not worth the price tag.

Thanks, I had been considering this one but I'm on a bit of a budget right now and with other thing competing for my disposable income this is the line that stuck with me.



Highland Park Loki (15 Year Old)

48.7 abv

$249.99

Matured in both traditional Spanish sherry casks and also some heavily peated casks

I really wanted to like this. Thor is a good whisky.  But, if your bring the hype and the flashy bottle, you better bring an excellent whisky that is way better than your 12 year old.  Loki is unbalanced and that holds it back from greatness (along with the ludicrous price).  The light nose is complex and nice.  But the taste and finish comes off one note of smoke and your searching for the rest.  If I blind tasted this without seeing the color I think I would of thought this was bottled at 43%. The quick arrival and departure of the taste doesn't help either.  Even weirder I could not taste the sherry influence as all.  Definitely try before you buy.  At least you get the fancy bottle holder?



Review # 115

Highland Park Loki  15 Year Old 48.7%

Color:  Amber -.5, Chardonnay, Quick Wide Tears and Legs.

Nose:  Barley, Vanilla, Cardamon, Spice, Honey, Peat, Sea Mist, Crackers, Dry Bourbon Oak Cask, Smoke, Wax. 

Mouth Feel:  Light to Medium Oily, Warm, Slightly Spicy.

Taste:  Oaky, Vegetal, Peat, Ginger, and Pepper Spices, Cardamon back in, Cabbage, Buttery, Salt, Metallic Tinge, Bitter Green Grapes.

Finish: Wine Tannins, Light Pepper (white), Barley, Hint of Copper, Dry Grass.  A medium finish with Green Ppple, Honey and Shortbread.

With Water:  Nose:  Smoke and Peat pop out more, Dry Grass Back in, Salty, Crackers, Dry Oak is back as is Ginger.
Taste:  White Pepper again, into Metallic, Then Black Tea, Yellow Grapefruit, Caramel.

Score:  Nose:  23,  Taste:  22,  Finish:  22,  Balance:  23,   Total: 90

Notes:  Not quite as complex as I would have hoped for for a whisky of this price.  Dry, grassy, mineral and metallic notes with a honey sweet finish.  A nice whisky but Highland Park 18 is a better buy IMO at about 1/2 the price.



Review #118

Highland Park Loki, 15 years, 48.7% abv, Island

Nose: Green apple, very fresh oak shavings, key lime pie, meringue, very light peat and soft subtle smoke. Opens up quite nicely? very spicy and syrupy, hints of a light sherry profile. Caramel, chardonnay.

Palate: Quite coating and oily. Sweet barley, green apple skin, spicy sherry syrup (very subtle- almost nonexistent). Very sweet smoke, candy shop aroma. Very sweet overall but a times it quickly flops over to a very bitter profile. The flop is quite floral in nature and comes across as an unwelcome edge? it?s just kind of harsh with the ashy peat that?s kicking around.

Finish: Buttery woody sweet smoke. Ashy pepper, earthy ashy acidic peat. Melon rind, cigar butt and leather. Quite a bit of burnt wood, toasted heather, mineral spirits. The finish is tingly, bitter and floral. Relatively quickly drying.

88/100

For me the sherry wasn?t integrated well enough, I keep getting an insurgence of bitter floral that really puts me off. On paper this whisky is a real winner, and half the time in my mouth it was a real winner too but what else can you do?

Don?t pay 250 bucks for a bottle? you can do that?



I just kept getting flashes of sherry, but not enough to enjoy. It really spent most of it's time in a bitter floral state that didn't get along with the peat.

/shrug



Love the imagery of a bachelorette orgy... 

I really want the stand for this bottle, I'm a sucker for the pretty things.

But at that cost I'd get a bottle of the CS and chuck it in there :)



Highland Park Loki / 15 yr / 48.7% ABV

Tasted neat

The second release in the Valhalla series (Thor first), this is a cask-strength treat.  Apparently, it's been aged in casks (partially) containing previously peated whisky.  It retails for $280 in NYC, but I was fortunate enough to get a sample of this.  Unfortunate, my sample did not come in a mini-viking longship :(

This is certainly as good or better than the regular Highland Park lineup, although I'd say it's quite similar to the 15 year old, but with more peatiness.  It seems thicker, as well.  Realize if you buy this, you are paying $180 for the cool wooden stand :)

Rating: 87/100

79th review

"Be silent, /u/ecb29! | for a dram with me

Thy wife once chanced to win.



more like the tired whipped leftovers of a bachelorette orgy

God



Loki is the second in Valhalla series from the Orknians up at Highland Park, the first being the mighty Thor. This one has spent at least 15 years "matured in both traditional Spanish sherry casks and also some heavily peated casks," according to the website.  Bottled at 48.7% ABV, and $250.  

Color: Gold.  

Nose:  Mostly malt and peat, also cinnamon, sherry, peanut brittle, cherry, pear, and a coppery note.  

Taste: First sweet with a bite and medium heat, becoming very sour, with heavy citrus, pine, medicinal peat, and tar. I also can't shake vague impressions of popcorn and red wine. Overall, I would call it "sharp."  

Finish: Charcoal, maduro cigar smoke, sour peat, walnut, and black Starbucks coffee. Bitter. Very good.  

Conclusions: My first impression was of a much stronger HP15. And I was surprised to read it was bottled at only about 49% -- since there is a bit of an alcohol-bite, I was expecting it to be stronger. After setting it down and coming back, I found the obvious star of the night to be the peat; in a mystery dram, I would guess this was an Islay. There is less sherry influence than most HPs, it's less balanced than the standard 12, less rich than the 18, and less savory than the Thor (although I would love to do a side by side comparison!) I would say the dram is okay, but the finish is fantastic. Maybe I'm officially a nit-picking snob but I put Loki as my lowest-scoring HP. 88/100  

Score comparisons:
HP18 = 96
Thor = 95
HP12 = 90
HP15 = 89
Loki = 88  



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  my 10th Highland Park and another in the Valhalla series:  Highland Park Loki 15 year 97.4 proof.   (pic attached, new desktop).  What can I say about HP that I haven't already.  The brand is good.  The 12 standard is a great buy.  The Cask Strength is phenomenal and mostly unavailable - cross your fingers some day they release it world wide.  The Travel Exclusive HPs are not worth the money and are only novelties.  Thor was great, how's his troublemaker brother?

very good, not amazing.  not amazing in the sense that I've had better but definitely a very good whisky.  worthy of the score I'm giving it for sure.  Honestly, if I had had this as my first Highland Park way back when, I'd probably laud it much more but I've been spoiled now as a Scotch drinker and have to be a bit harsher on things that are repetitive for me. This has all the right pieces and a good ABV, you wont be disappointed by it.  it just doesnt blow me away.  

very good, not amazing - and I'm in search of amazing now, despite something coming up

90/100

Highland Park Cask Strength - 95/100

Highland Park Drakkar - 79/100

Highland Park 8 Gordon & MacPhail  - 84/100  

Highland Park 12    92/100  

Highland Park 15  - 89/100    

Highland Park 16 Thor - 94/100

Highland Park 18 - 93/100

Highland Park 25  - 93/100

Highland Park 41 year old 1968 ? peerless Duncan Taylor - 90/100   



Still at Highlander Pub. Still drinking. Wife brought a book. She's awesome. Pub is too.

Save and heap your hatred and anger upon Loki. He who is father of Hel, Fenrir, J?rmungandr, Nari, and mother of the eight-legged horse Sleipnir. A shapeshifter trickster who helped the gods until he helped end Baldr. Now bound underground by the entrails of his sons, with a Serpent above his head, dripping venom. When the venom hits his head, he writhes in pain and causes earthquakes. When Ragnar?k comes, he will escape, and will slay and be slayed by Heimdallr.

Current theories states that Loki was a trickster god, though some theories state he's closer to a variant of Lucifer. He shows up in quite a few poems, and has been theorized more than any other Norse myth.

Even today we discuss him, with most people thinking of Tom Hiddleston in his role as a villain of the Avengers.

Why do I bring this all up? Because today I'm reviewing another of the Valhalla series from Highland Park. Specifically Highland Park Loki.

Each of the whiskies made for this series are designed with the Norse god in mind, as best as they can mimic the general attitudes and mythology.

In this case, they've used heavily peated casks as part of the maturation. Part of the idea is that it's a tricky, subtle dram, with shapeshifting happening as part of it (or at least that's what they were aiming for).

So, let's see how this tastes, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Island

Age: 15 years

Abv: 48.7%

Colour: 5Y 8/8

Nose: Pineapple, mango, sawdust, plum jelly, lavender, wood on fire, mace

Quite a different, acidic, and then kinda crazy nose. The peat elements aren't normal. They are far off, or just the spice, or just the smell of fire.

Lots of different notes here. Kinda mental nose. I can see why they gave it the name they did.

Taste: Marmalade, melon, rosemary, butter, salt, dehydrated strawberries, malt

The flavours here are good, but muted. Far off. I actually asked to see the bottle to see if it was oxidized. Turns out, no, it wasn't.

The constant changes, the floral aspects, and elements of the peat are gone now. All we have is some guy. Standing there. It's like an allegory for the old, gender-bending legends to the movie with a pretty, though excellent actor.

Finish: Peach, lime, smoke, sand, grilled cinnamon pineapple, dry

Starts back up at the end, trying to emulate the ideas of the nose. Love the grilled portion, and the smoke kicks up again.

Quite dry at the end, which ties the lot of it all together.  Better than the taste. Again, the smoke isn't a typical peat flavour. Instead it's distant and just adds some nice touches.

Conclusion: An interesting dram, and probably over hyped due to our societies love of all things Loki, not to mention the cultural impact in total of tricksters on humanity.

Does it live up to the hype? No, not really. Rather it has a bonkers nose that goes all over the place, a lighter taste, and a finish that pulls a lot of it together. I'm not in love with this dram, but I'm certainly not going to bash it either. It sets out to do something crazy, and it does mostly that. I think there are better Highland Parks on the market though in general.

80/100

Scotch review #487, Island review #45, Whisky Network review #791

Other Highland Park reviews:

Highland Park 10

Highland Park 10 Old Malt Cask Douglas Laing

Highland Park 12

Highland Park 15

Highland Park 18

Highland Park 1985 Scott's Selection

Highland Park 1988 26 Cadenhead's Small Batch Cask Strength

Highland Park 1994 Vintage

Highland Park 1998 Vintage

Highland Park 1999 Cask Strength Gordon & MacPhail

Highland Park 2001 Vintage

Highland Park 2003 Cask Strength Gordon & MacPhail 

Highland Park 25

Highland Park Dark Origins

Highland Park Freya

Link to my website with all my reviews



Still at Highlander Pub.

are you paying rent?



My Current Whisky Network Average =     77.11

Standard Deviation =    10.08

Skewness =  -2.60057

Kurtosis =  9.97622

Median =    79

IQR =   9