This is: Highland Park Dark Origins, a new NAS expression from one of my top distilleries. According to their website "This latest addition to the core expressions uses twice as many first fill sherry casks than in the classic Highland Park 12 year old resulting in a naturally darker, richer flavour." 46.8% ABV  

Color: dark amber... looks like weak coffee.  

Nose: spicy sherry... raisins, cinnamon, ginger, and cloves.  

Taste: sweet & spicy... malt, honey, milk chocolate, cherry, and black pepper.  

Finish: dry sherry & light smoke... peat smoke, raisins, dried mango, plum, cacao, and lots of very dry oak. short but good!  

Conclusions: the finish fades too fast, but not before you are hit with what can only be described as SUPER SHERRY. Less smoke here than other HPs too, and much more of a sherry depth-charge. 89/100  

This is: an exclusive bottling for Delilah's in Chicago -- the whisky dive to rule all whisky dives, with 255 single malt scotches from 70 distilleries. This Highland Park was distilled in 1992 and bottled in 2006 after maturing in a single sherry butt. Cask strength at 57.7% ABV  

Color:  blood red... dark as hell, the darkest scotch I've ever seen. Wish I had snapped a picture!  

Nose: raisins... nothing but raisins. Seriously. If I smelled this blindfolded I would guess it was a box of raisins.  

Taste: sour & dry... autumn leaves, twigs, raisins, dates, malt balls, and burnt oak.  

Finish: big sherry oak... even more raisins, bark, lacquer, fingernail polish, and burning pine trees.  

Conclusions: Well, the HP flavor profile is mostly gone. Sherry bomb? No. Depth charge? Nuh-uh. This thing is a sherry ICBM. I'm not so sure these super-dry and sour oak monsters are my favorites on the flavor spectrum, and this might fall into the too-tanniny over-oaked category for some people. Nevertheless, this is very deep, dark, and incredibly drinkable for the high-proof. Similar to the Dark Origins but less spicy and much more oaky. A fair trade off. 89/100  



Thanks for the sample /u/Neversafeforlife.

Appearance: Russet

Nose: Definite sherry fruits up front, quite dry, cherries, plums, a very faint sulfur and smokiness.

Taste: Arrives with some aggressive spice and pepper, cinnamon, lots of dark fruits, strawberry, cherries, black berries, quite weighty on the palate, sweet malty honey and molasses.

Finish: I didn't pick up any of the Highland Park smoke. That is, until I swallowed it. The finish is your typical Highland Park gentle smokiness, although slightly more vegital than I remember the 12 being. Maybe the sherry or sulfur is influencing my interpretation of the smoke.

Note: I quite enjoyed this one. The weight of the Highland Park stands up well to heavier sherry, and lends complexity with it's dark sweetness (think molasses or treacle). The smoke on the finish is a nice surprise, since until that point it hides in the background. Overall, well worth picking up.

Score: 88/100

Scores to Date: Min:66.0, Max:98.0, Avg:85.7, SD:5.2 - Total Reviews: 114



Distilled/Owned by: Highland Park / Edrington Group

Region: Island

46.8% ABV

Mashbill: 100% malted barley

Aged For: NAS

Cask Type: Ex-bourbon and sherry casks (2x more sherry than the 12)

Chill Filtered: No

Color Added: No

Color: Dark Auburn

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn.

Nose: Smokey fruit, oak, raisin, Sulphur ,barley, sugar, citrus, rotted wood

Mouthfeel: Medium bodied

Palate/Taste: Raisin and dried fruits, followed by smoke, and young barley. Cinnamon and ginger.

Finish:  Medium length and warmth with fruits, smoke, and cinnamon oak.

Thoughts: The nose was a bit unpleasant, but the body and finish had good flavors. Younger and more fruity than the regular HP12.

Score: 82/100



Oh damn! I'm looking for that immediately. Thanks!

Edit: drat.... they don't do BevMo in NY it seems. Can't ship to here?



Highland Park Dark Origins ? 46.8%, $75 

Nose: Strong sherry, funk, raisin, meaty, earthy, vegetal, coco nibs, toasted malt, leather, plums, lightly tangy. 

Taste: Strong sherry, plum pudding, earthy, vegetal peat, malt, tangy fruits. Medium mouthfeel.  

Finish: The funk holds to the end with the vegetal peat alongside, the sherry turns meaty and dry, a light malt holds too. Medium length.  

Notes: This was a nice sherry bomb, much more complex and rich than the 12 or 15 standard releases. It doesn't quite live up to the nose but I still enjoyed it.  

85/100 



Much like my previous review, I almost poured one too many samples from this bottle without doing my own review. It's been popular over at /r/scotchswap since I bought it for my Secret Santa match. I've had a dram or two myself but kept no notes prior to tonight.  The bottle color makes it impossible to see the level of the liquid within, and I almost went too far. Fortunately I was able to catch myself in time...

Price: $83.69 special order in PA

Nose: This bottle has a distinct nose which is unlike anything else I have ever smelled. It has some hints similar to the 18, but very few. Also has a few more similarities to Oban 14 in the plastic bucket, but that is very secondary to the main scent. There might be a hint of the main scent in the nose of the Macallan 12 - it's secondary or lower in that bottle; I described it as overripe strawberries there. Enough hunting elsewhere, let's get a description. Keep in mind this is one single smell: a hot plastic bucket full of rotten raisins and a few moldy grass clippings. And it's a good smell. Got it? Brine and sherry.

Mouthfeel: thin but creamy

Taste: grapes, Concord grapes that we must eat today or tomorrow they'll be rotten. Dark chocolate caramel candy with a cherry filled center. A touch of pepper and brown sugar. 

Finish: warming and medium to long. Not a lot of burn. Aftertaste is some cooked fruit dessert pudding, very sweet, and combined with a bit of wood. Eating plum pudding with a toothpick. And a hint of cigar.

I've really struggled to find the words to describe the taste and smell of this whisky. It's a highland sherry bomb, quite unusual (to me) and there just is nothing to compare to that. It's good - even though the words I've found to describe it sound revolting I've enjoyed it. Grade B, solid accomplishment and goodness.

Score: 85/100

Would I buy it again? Yes, I'll order another. If nothing else, it's a popular swapper. And there truly is no other comparable taste that I have found yet.



It's a highland sherry bomb, quite unusual (to me) and there just is nothing to compare to that.

I definitely agree with this. It seems to be kind of divisive around here but it certainly is unique, in my limited experience. I'm a fan.



Highland Park is one of those distilleries where I seem to like the younger offerings better. /u/tequilajunction was nice enough to swap me a sample of Dark Origins, which is one of the Highland Park expressions that sounded really appealing to me, so let's see if it lives up to my expectations!

Highland Park Dark Origins

Strength: 46.8%

Color: Golden amber. 

Nose: Sherry and salt. If I didn't know what I was drinking I'd immediately guess Bunnahabhain or maybe the Laddie Ten since it has a little bit of that funky nose. The brine is quite pleasant and savory smelling with sweet fruit to balance it out. Great start!

Palate: A little bit of that sweetness up front followed by malt and brine and salt. Soft hints of peat are barely detectable. Ocean spray and bread with salted butter. 

Finish: Sea air and brine linger. 

Summary: I seem to recall someone saying that Dark Origins is what Highland Park 12 used to taste like. I think I expected more fruit, but I found this to be more like a better HP12, or like Bunnahabhain 12. The salty and briney notes are prominent, but it has a nice sweetness to balance it out. Really good stuff. 

Score: 90/100 

Scotch Review #59

Whisky Review #117

@review_bot scotch 'Highland Park'



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's Highland Park reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  This time: Highland Park Dark Origins 46.8%abv

it does taste a little young, but I still like it.  A bit firery.  you really get the sherried compared to the malt/peat of the regular 12 year old which I find more balanced.  I still think this is very good though and am not disappointed.  the packaging is dumb and I dont care what story they are trying to tell. I do enjoy some Highland Park bottlings, however I believe its the next distillery to get a too-big head and destroy itself like Macallan.  Look at the Norse god bottlings, while good they want ungodly amounts of money for them and its just dumb to me.  Dont do it Highland Park, go back to just making good whisky, keep your fan base please. 

87/100



I was pretty unimpressed with this. It's not awful but compared to oog at the same price...

If they dropped srp for hp18 to 100 I'd recommend it all the time. As it stands, yeah, it's Macallan v50. Balvenie already jumped that ship.



at this price I grabbed it to last for a long time, before it jumps to $200.

I may have to grab the Mac18 I saw for $140 as well, thats over $275 in some places now.  



while good they want ungodly amounts of money for them and its just dumb to me. Dont do it Highland Park, go back to just making good whisky, keep your fan base please. 

Completely agree. Though you were kinder on this one than I. Haven't put up my review yet, but I believe I put it around 83-85.



this stuff  

boner inducing. 



Still trying to find a reasonably priced Highland Park in the Travel Retail chain. 

Only tastey ones seemed to be priced in the three figure range. I would pick up a litre bottle of Highland Park 12 but they are sticking to the Warrior set which has some poor members.



I do enjoy some Highland Park bottlings, however I believe its the next distillery to get a too-big head and destroy itself like Macallan.

Don't forget Dalmore.



Thank God it's friday malt mates!

So, I heard good things about the new Highland Park, and hey it's higher strength than many standard HPs and it's non chill-filtered. Hence I didn't hesitate when I saw this standing on the shelf:

Highland Park Dark Origins

Assassin's Creed Edition

Islands, 46.8%

color: brown amber

nose: vinegar, sulphur, polished wood, bananas, sea salt, roasted apples, cr?me brul?e, hazelnut shells

taste: ash, smoke, oak, hint of metal, sherry, cola, licorice, smoked ham

finish: hot, spicy, green bananas, grass, green apples, hint of woodland strawberries, long

Pretty smoky and sherried for a Highland Park, which is good. But: vinegary/sulphury notes on the nose quite dominant. Youngish and harsh on the palate. Then the finish is pretty nice.

Double First Fill Sherry Casks.

Yes first I thought too WTF? It means that they used twice as many first fill sherry casks for this as in the standard 12 yo. I'd prefer they'd use half as much but better casks.

71/100



This has been a fairly controversial release from Highland park as it is not only NAS but also a slight departure from their standard profile. I was skeptical at first but I had a dram at Whisky Live in March and I loved it. I got myself a bottle with last months whisky budget, the prices are set to increase so I got one while the getting's good.

Nose: Charcoal. Gunpowdery dirty sherry and lots of it. Cloves, ginger and black pepper. Dutch liquorice (the real stuff, those leathery round candies). Dark juicy fruits, stewed plums and black cherries. Pure cacao. Bits of salt. Coal fire smoke. Spicy beef stew. Rubber. 

Palate: A nice peaty splash and then a wave of dirty sherry. Blackcurrants. Citrus rind. Turkish coffee,  no sugar. Pipe tobacco. Salt. Black pepper.

Finish: Long. Rich leather on the swallow. Dry chewy sherry and black coffee bitterness with an undulating note of dark fruits in chocolate and lingering smoke. 

Rating: 10/10

This is a real marmite whisky. I am firmly in the "love it" camp. It's dark and rich and well made. This is clearly not the kind of NAS release where rushed spirit is being put in and what the concept should be all about. 



I didn't like Highland Park at first but I've come around. At least for the 12yo. I haven't tried anything else. Apparently this is different, though. 

Would you say it's closer to a typical Islay whisky, or closer to Highland Park's signature floral and gently peated style, or something squarely in-between, or altogether different?

Would love to try some somehow before buying an $80+ bottle.



Thanks to /u/shane_il for the sample.

The idea that anyone would knowingly go north of their country, buy farmland, and use that as "the place to vacation" is an alien concept to me.

Add in said "northern" location is in the middle of an Arctic sea, and I'm lost.

However my old boss informed me that, for awhile, it was a trend among richer UKers to do just that on Orkney island. It sounds as appealing as dipping ones genitalia in cold water, however I'm from a country that has a healthy group of polar bear dippers, so who am I to judge.

Along that same vein, it seems odd to bring out Highland Park Dark Origins.

Don't get me wrong - I think bringing out a celebratory whisky for your founder (the batman of Orkney, Magnus Eunson) is pretty amazing. He was an interesting guy, what with being a whisky smuggler and all.

No, rather the whole thing seems odd. First off, the packaging.

As we've all learned, packaging doesn't always equal quality. So I've put this aside while reviewing. That said, it's an all black bottle. Can't see what's inside at all. In a time of people caring about add colouring, that seems fishy. As a friend used to say, they sold their Maple Syrup in glass bottles, because they had nothing to hide.

About the syrup. But that's a story for another day.

But let's move passed that though. The whisky itself is made up of 80% first-fill sherry casks, which come at a premium. However it's not cask strength, there's no way to see the rich, dark colour, and there's no age statement.

All of this leaves one scratching ones head. As opposed to scratching others heads. It doesn't scream "special edition", it more so screams "interesting idea".

None the less, I like Highland Park, and trust them to bring out good products. So let's see how this tastes, shall we?

Price: $99.95 (CAD) at the LCBO

Region: Island

Abv: 46.8%

Colour: 7.5YR 6/10

Nose: Cherry, anise, oak, candy corn, watermelon, raisin, brown sugar, smoke

Well it's evident there's some quality casks here. The strong red fruit flavour, the evident sherry notes, and the allowance of the Highland Park peat to come through is all right there.

Shit, shouldn't have used evident so quickly, that last sentence sounds dumb.

That said, there are some younger or sweet notes here. They are nice, however my spidey sense is tingling.

No, wait, just peed myself. Ignore the sense.

Taste: Licorice, smoke, brine, prune, grape

Simple flavours. The small amount of smoke really takes over here. Again, the sherry casks have imparted fruit flavours in here, however it's not lasting or even really putting up much of a fight.

Finish: Strawberry, smoke, cumin, raisin, dry pear, black pepper

And to say it again: There's smoke, earth, and some other flavours I associate with Highland Park, yet the sherry aspect is diminished, or barely there.

I'm not a happy camper with this one.

Conclusion: If I were to compare this to other Highland Park offerings, it's doesn't really hold up. And I think that's where the vast majority of my annoyance comes from in this dram. If it was called by any other distillery, I wouldn't have the comparison at hand.

However when I pick this up, I find the issue with NAS coming to light. I assume that it's an upgrade on the 12, or even the 15. I assume it's better due to the first-fill sherry casks, the packaging, and the pomp and circumstance that surrounds the release.

Instead I receive an alright dram. Just alright. I assume the youth in the casks is the issue, however it could be anything else here. It's a smart move, almost. I believe, personally, that if you're a distillery, and you're going to use first-fill casks, it's better to use them for whiskies that will be cask strength, as the aficionado's are the ones who understand the effect.

Missed chances, I guess.

76/100

Scotch review #441, Island review #36, Whisky Network review #709

Other Highland Park reviews:

Highland Park 10 Old Malt Cask Douglas Laing

Highland Park 12

Highland Park 15

Highland Park 18

Highland Park 1985 Scott's Selection

Highland Park 1988 26 Cadenhead's Small Batch Cask Strength

Highland Park 1994 Vintage

Highland Park 1998 Vintage

Highland Park 2001 Vintage

Highland Park 25

Highland Park Gordon & MacPhail Cask Strength 2003

Link to my website with all my reviews



The whisky itself is made up of 80% first-fill sherry casks, which come at a premium.

I believe, personally, that if you're a distillery, and you're going to use first-fill casks, it's better to use them for whiskies that will be cask strength, as the aficionado's are the ones who understand the effect.

All of this makes sense and I agree, but not all 1st fill casks are created equal. To give the two extreme examples, one could have held a fine PX for 20 years and another could have held the Sherry counterpart to JW Red for a couple of years. I'm sure that you know that, but I think a lot of people on here see "1st fill sherry" and have a very high expectation, when in reality it doesn't mean all that much.



Honestly, I typically fall into the hype on first fill, mostly because, at one time, it meant a good cask, or some powerful flavours. So I'm used to it.

Also when I have first fill from SMWS, it's typically quite tasty.



My Current Whisky Network Average =     77.21

Standard Deviation =    10.23

Skewness =  -2.62234

Kurtosis =  10.12050

Median =    79

IQR =   9