Greetings, r/scotch! Rmill3r here with another whisky review. Highland Park has been a distillery that grabbed me with its classic Gaelic aesthetic but mostly lost me at its overly bitter and mineral tones. I've heard bad things across the board about this particular dram but I wanted to see how it held up anyway. This sample was courtesy of a recent swap with /u/father_boddingtons. Thanks for the drink, sir! . . . 

Highland Park 15, Island Single Malt Scotch Whisky; 43% abv; $69.99 for a 750mL bottle locally; enjoyed a neat dram

Atmosphere: Streaming The Weeknd's upcoming new album, Kiss Land on NPR's First Listen. I will be writing a review on this album, and it's typical dark/forlorn modern R&B. Not sure how I feel about this album compared to his pervious trilogy.   

Color: Pilsner

Nosing: Lemon peel, sweet and sour, yellow Sour Patch Kids, floral, heather, and pound cake

Tasting: Malty cereal, Apple Jacks, honey drizzle, light and delicate with floral spices 

Finish: Medium and lingering. Allspice and more honey with a belated breath of smoke. Real nice finish here. 

Score: 84/100

This is much more refined than the 12 and on par in quality with 18 yet a different aroma and palate altogether. Without having tried any independent bottlings or older Highland Park expressions, this would be my number one choice. It has a distinct Lowland quality, which isn't that great of a quality but it tempers the experience with a healthy and smoky finish and more maturity overall. 

I'm surprised by the backlash this whisky gets (relative to HP as a whole). Perhaps the lemon and lime prominence throws people off, but this is my favorite of the bunch. I'm not compelled to run out and buy a bottle, but when I'm ready for something new, I would strongly consider it. Good stuff.  

Related Reviews



I have to disagree with you there. 

I like all of them, but definitely think the 18 is the standout of the bunch. 

The 15 is by far the least sweet of the trio. probably the most peated, and driest. I prefer it to the 12, but it is no where near as balanced or refined as the 18 (to my palate). I find the 18 to be one of my favorites. Few other scotches combine salt and sweet and heat, and peat so perfectly - again for my palate. 



Nice review, I recognize that journal. It's pretty sweet for the low low price of free! Lots of space to fill with notes.

Would you say its worth the price difference from the 12yo?



This is much more refined than the 15

?  Do you mean the 12?



HP12 is tied for most bottles purchased since I started this whole drmuamming thing. HP18 has crossed my lips and blown my mind on a couple occasions as well, but I had yet to try the middle child. Finally appearing on the menu, I jumped at the chance. Let's dive right on in. From Orkney. Matured in sherry casks - but with more American oak, as I was told. 43% $67  

Color: Light bronze.  

Nose: Bananas foster, malt, sawdust, creme brulee, popcorn, and hay.  

Taste: Rather thin. Malt, bergamot, cherrywood, light sherry, and mead.  

Finish: Honey, blood, and very light smoke.  

Conclusions: Sweet and grassy like its 12yo bro -- which sits at 90/100 in my book. However. This offering is thinner, has much less smoke and less sherry as well, with an addition of citrus and fruit. Very smooth, very drinkable. Delicious, in fact. But the odd one in the family. 89/100.



HP12 has been my go to for the last year as the pre-dinner drink of choice. I've yet to try any of its older brothers, but I might have to take the plunge on the HP15 sooner rather than later.

Review is much appreciated.



Thank you for the review!

Your description of the nose has me wanting to run out and get this right away!  

I am curious about the blood in the finish, did you have this with a meal or shortly after one?  Perhaps that would give iron like notes that would come out as blood.  Very interesting, makes me want to try this more just to see (taste?)



I have pretty limited exposure to Highland Park, but the one bottle I have tried, Highland Park 12 I quite enjoyed. Nice subtle peat, doesn't punch you in the face with rubber/iodine/smoke and has a nice sherry backbone to it. I figured I should try more of the standard HP lineup and I'm starting with the now discontinued HP15.

Highland Park 15 / 43% ABV

Setup - Neat in a glencairn

Wallet Damage - June of 2017 / 750mL / ~$86 USD / purchased in TX

Region/Type: Orkney

Filtration: YES?

Nose - Bright dried red fruits (cherries, strawberries), lightly medicinal like goji berries, honey, very faint hint of fruity smoke, black tea.

Taste - A bit thin on the palate, thin fruity floral honey, dried cherries and strawberries, black pepper spice, wisp of dry fruit wood smoke, hint of black tea bittersweet and wet tobacco, tellicherry peppercorns, light brine.

Finish - Lingering lightly medicinal fruity sweet, goji berries, sweet spicy tellicherry peppercorn spice, gentle smoke from the morning after a campfire that used fruit (cherry/apple) wood.

Score - 91/100

Final Thoughts - This is a very well balanced lightly peated Scotch. It hits on all the right notes that I like with a complex balance of sweet and gentle smoke that keeps your tastebuds and nose wanting another go at it. It's definitely not an "everyday dram" as you sort of have to be in the mood for it; or at least I am with any peated Scotch. I think this would be best neat or with a tiny bit of water, ice might kill the subtle smoke and brine a bit, but I have yet to experiment with that.

Whisk[e]y Network Review #176

NOTE - All reviews are done without factoring in price paid.



Thanks to u/ziggy1283 for these samples.

Highland Park 15

Nose: Smoke, cherry, orange, caramel, cola, green apple, faintest hint of peat, grapefruit.

Palate: Raisins, brazil nuts, orange peel, caramelized brown sugar, lemon, black pepper.

Finish: Strawberry, cola, smoke, ginger, lemon zest, corn syrup.

Not a huge fan of the Highland Park 12, which gets a lot of love here. I did a side-by-side comparison between the two while sipping this.  The 15 is so much better.  Balanced, smoother, more flavourful, more complex.   Highland Park 15 succeeds where the 12 fails.  I was curious about the casks used for this and a little research suggested it's a mix of European sherry casks and American Oak sherry casks.  

Very solid.  Very nice.

43% abv.

88/100

Other Highland Park reviews:

Highland Park 8 Cask Stregnth Gordon and Macphail - 89/100

Highland Park 12 - 79/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Port Wood

Nose: Islay peak/smoke, grape kool-aid, leather, iodine, salt, banana, candy, toffee.

Palate: Peat, smoke, wine, maple, canvas, oranges, banana.

Finish: Red wine, black pepper, cinnamon, banana bread.

Very interesting and complex.  Sweet, sour, winey, peaty, smokey, intense flavours.  Gets huge points for being so damn interesting.  Despite the complexity, nothing is offensive or contradictory in the flavour (assuming you don't mind Laphroaig's general intensity).  I think the port influence is very much present here and although I really like this, there are other non-limited edition Laphroaig's that I like as much or more.  That said, probably the best port influenced scotch I've had.

51.3 abv.

89/100

Other Laphroaig reviews:

Laphroaig 10 - 86/100

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength Batch 4 - 91/100

Laphroaig 18 - 90/100

Laphroaig Battlehill 13 - 88/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Origins - 88/100

Laphroaig Quarter Cask - 89/100



Highland Park 15

(43%)

?

Thanks to u/Devoz for this sample!

?

Nose: Honey, orange peel, caramel, red apple, vanilla, lemon, dried leaves

Taste: Smoke, orange peel, dried leaves, brine, lemon, clove, oak

Finish: Smoke, oak, nutmeg, lemon, pepper

?

The nose is sweet and fruity for the most part, only deviating now and then to bring forth a richer caramel or mild earthiness that comes and goes. The earthiness is a little stronger in taste, along with some soft smoke and brine. The fruits have a slightly more bitter nature to them now, with some developing oak and spices by the tail end. The oak and spice carry through the finish, still accompanied by the soft smoke and citrus. A bit of peppery heat lingers in the mouth for a bit afterwards. 

Not bad? a little more refined than the standard 12, but still with a bit of bite. Exhibits pretty much all the classic elements of the Highland Park character. There?s a bit of a "jack of all trades, master of none? vibe to it actually, with its bits of sherry, smoke, peat, earth, wood, spice, etc. The mouthfeel is a little thin, but otherwise it?s quite a serviceable dram. 

?

84/100



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  When Rusty was over a couple nights ago and we did super successful review of Bowmore 12,, he also brought over a new favorite of his: Highland Park 15 year old 86 proof.  And a third bottle of Willet Rye which I'm quite fond of, but more on that later.

I still like the 12 better, this was mellower/sweeter.  definitely a good dram, reminded me of a Speyside.  I really need to try the 18 again, its been 2 years since I've tasted it.  This version of the HP15 was at least the 43% version, instead of what's pictured here: 40%.  strange that they do that.

89/100

so as I mentioned he also brought over a bottle of Willett Rye single barrel. He didn't really care much about it, but I thought it was fantastic.  I will probably review it for /r/bourbon but I am thinking about doing a post here about bourbons/ryes/irish/indian whiskey, anything that isn't really Scotch, recommendations.  all in one post to reflect what I think are some really quality whiskey that can just about match the complexity of Scotch.  I've been trying them lately because they are a lot cheaper and I can enjoy those while giving my expensive stuff a rest.  I've found a couple and will gather my thoughts.  



Yeah, I understand the wanting to try some cheaper stuff. I used a "pods" type service to move to CO, and I didn't have room in my car for my booze. Until I find a place, I don't have my collection. And damnit, I need some variety.

I originally brought a bottle of Talisker 10 for my dad and I to drink when we stopped for the night on the road trip out here. Once I got here, I decided I didn't want to drink nothing but Talisker so I bought a Pig's nose based on your review. Just yesterday I bought Old Weller 107 ($21!) and a Springbank 10. 

I must say, for $21 I'm really damn impressed with the Old Weller. Springbank will be tonight with a review.

edit: and, oh... yeah... HP 15 is good too. Actually, found a bottle locally for $57 yesterday. I'm really fighting the urge to buy a crap load of bottles.



Old Weller 107 is great.  thats what I've been buying for $20 and it keeps me from just drinking my Macallan Cask Strength too much.  I'll maybe have a dram of expensive stuff first, then go to cheaper good quality stuff.

did you like the Pigs Nose?  



The Pig's Nose is pretty good, and I like the fact that it only ran me about $30. But, realistically, I've tried alot of the Compass Box line and everything and my official opinion is: I'm not much for blends. Nothing wrong with them, but I don't find them overly interesting, and I drink scotch because I like interesting. Oddly enough, that's one of the reasons I like old weller so much... it's definitely a bourbon, but I think the wheat influence comes through nicely- bringing something different to the table.

That being said, I bought both of them because I'm not going to care if either gets killed before I can find a place and get the rest of my bottles.

edit: JW green is still my favorite blend.



I recommend Pig's Nose mostly because its one of he only blends I like and a great starter scotch for how smooth it is.  I recently bought my second bottle because it was on sale for $24.  Its a good summer whisky for grilling out, I think towards the end of the one I had last summer I put it in my garage freezer and just took swigs from the bottle during yardwork or get-togethers..-- you know, like a high class gentleman.

old weller is so rich, so good. like pappy but affordable



Offhand at the same price range, Bunnahabhain 18 and Laphroaig 18 I find more enjoyable. Both of which aren't things I consistently keep around. 

For the same price, there are dozens of bottles I want to try before I would buy a bottle of HP18. Again, offhand, Glenfarclas 17, Glenfarclas cask, Springbank 15, any Kilchoman, Oban DE, Talisker DE (just moved and can find both locally). I'm sure there are more.

I like HP18, it's clearly better than the 12 year, but you can't beat the value of the 12 year.



I'm changing my job and on my last day at the old place my coworkers got me this nice and lovely Highland Park 15 as a farewell present. I think they liked me...

I told them damn the HP 25 is hip now on Scotchit but they didn't care. Anyways here's my review...:

Islands, 40%

*color: bronze

*nose: grapefruit, mango, sweet malt, vanilla, freshly cut, wet grass, dried apples, hint of peat smoke

*taste: banana, oak, toffee, honey, hint of spices, hint of smoke, chlorinated water, sweet malt, rice pudding, roasted apples

*finish: long, sweet, hint of sourness

I know the 12 and the 18 year old and I like them both and didn't get disappointed from this one either.

The smoke is bareley noticeable. It's well balanced, fruity and pretty complex. A typical Highland Park: A bit of everything in it.

Thanks guys!

88/100



The preview pic had me thinking this was going to be another HP 25. 

Good review!



I was at my fiancee's (yes, I got engaged!!!) extended family Christmas Eve get together, and one of her uncles is a big scotch nut. He's been to Scotland a few times and has a few great bottles in his collection. He let me sample his best and even opened a bottle he had been saving for about 5 years.  here's what I tasted (notes from memory, so they're less in depth). 

the first was a 19 year old Highland Park from Douglas Laing, distilled in 1984, bottled in 2003. it's NCF, non coloured, and bottled at 50% ABV. one of 636 bottles.

Appearance:   very light yellow. Not coloured.

Nose:  very salty, iodine, woody. Some sherry but not much.

Taste:  similar to nose. Lots of salt, no peat which I found interesting for  an HP. Somewhat oaky. Quite sweet but not in a fruity way. 

Finish:  relatively short actually. Very pleasant.

Rating: 83  

this was tasty, but somewhat simple and one-note.. Not what I expected from a 19 yr old in terms of complexity. It was aged in sherry casks but I didn't get a ton of typical sherry notes. I definitely enjoyed it and it's actually the oldest I've ever had now!

this bad boy he opened up for us after having it on his shelf for 5 years, having bought it at the distillery in Scotland. This is the Arran Malt Cask Strength single barrel, bottle 196 of 484. Aged in bourbon casks and then finished in Cognac barrels!!! never seen that before and i was ridiculously excited to try it! Bottled in 2006, it doesn't say when it was distilled so I'm not certain of the age. Cask strength, non-coloured. 

Appearance:   light orange colour. Good legs

Nose: very very sweet nose but not fruity. It's a rich, molasses type sweetness. Some oak influence. honey

Taste: again, very sweet in a rich, honey-like, corn syrup way. The mouthfeel is oily and thick too. really strong wine influence from the cognac. Incredibly rich. Unique compared to anything I've had before

Finish: long and thick. The mouth feels coated minutes later. 

Rating: 93

incredible dram. I like sherry finishes but this was amped up to 11. absolutely delicious. He paid $160 for it in Scotland and there's really no chance of me ever finding this again. Hopefully I'll find a chance to go back to his place and have some more sometime!! just looked at ChainChompsky's review of this one and he really didn't enjoy it... checked the bottling dates and the lot size and apparently we had different barrels.. this one was apparently much nicer than the one he tried. bummer dude!

This bottle he had open already and poured me a dram after the Cognac had dissipated. Needless to say, my expectations were high after that first Arran! It was also bottled in 2006 but doesn't have a distillery date, so again, age is unknown to me. It was in Oloroso sherry casks for most of its life, and then finished for a while in Gonzalez Byass cream sherry casks for a time until bottling in 2006. Bottle 807 of 812. 

Appearance:   it's quite a bit darker, likely due to its aging in ex-sherry its entire life. Lots of little particles in it due to being unfiltered I guess.

Nose: very rich with lots of fruit. Strawberries, plums. 

Taste: still very sweet. Berries - raspberry, strawberry especially. Prunes, figs.. Bit more earthy than I expected too. almost got licorice near the end. Apples too!

Finish: long and sweet.  

Rating: 91

not as good as the cognac but still delicious. I'm officially a fan of the Arran malts. Particularly impressed by their experimentation with different finishes. I love Amarone wine, so I might try to pick up a bottle of the Amarone finish sometime!

after those flavour-bombs I thought finishing off the night with another HP would be good. Standard 15 year distillery bottling here so no surprises expected.

Appearance:   pretty dark orange? definitely coloured. 

Nose: smoky, typical highland park seaside peat. Briney. smoked meat

Taste: can definitely pick up some of the same notes in the spirit as the 19 year old above, but this time there's a tasty layer of peat melding it all together. Earthy and malty. Some sweetness. Nuttiness too. lots of layers to this one. 

Finish: moderate length.

Rating: 88

a definite improvement compared to the 19. for some reason that one was just lacking something but the peat in this one pulls it together. Really sad it's not available in Ontario. A very nice way to finish off an evening of Island drams!

had an awesome night at the future in-laws extended family. her uncle is awesome and had fantastic stories of his trips to Scotland. i look forward to many more evenings of geeking out over scotch with him!

Merry Christmas everyone!!!

@review_bot scotch



/u/muaddib99's  reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Nice reviews!

Sounds like someone needs more bottles of Arran in their life! 



Great reviews, and sounds like a great tasting! I'm a big fan of Arran, too - nice in-laws to be there.

Congrats on your engagement! Always good to hear good news, especially from the counterpart to my first ever ScotchSwap trade. One of these years I'll need to get back up to Toronto and we'll grab a drink instead of just making a quick hand-off. Happy holidays!



Hi everyone,

u/Unclimbability hasn?t reviewed any Highland Park yet?! You don?t say? 

Well, were gonna correct that. Majorly. I?m going to review them all. From the 12 year old, right up to the 40 year old with one or two in between.

I?ve had 2 bottles of the 12, one of the 18 and the rest are from samples I bought, either from Master of Malt or a miniature pack they do.

?

First up we?ll do the 12-18.

?

Highland Park 12 40%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Heather, honey, creamy toffee, vanilla, subtle heathery peat, raisins and cream, big malty note, nuts and toffee apples, chocolate orange, orange marmalade, butterscotch.

Taste: Honey, malt, heather, heathery peat, wood fire, toffee, barley, bit of coffee, orange marmalade.

Finish: Medium length. Drying with tannins and coffee.

Great value for money @ ?25.

71/100

?

Highland Park 15 40%

Colour: Gold

Body: Light/Medium

Nose: Really fruity, juicy, green grape, kiwi, under ripe mango, fruit salad, some dry oak. A tiny bit of smoke if you get behind the fruit.

Taste: Light and fresh. Clean, juicy fruit, green grape, kiwi and the under ripe mango, then more drying with the oak coming in. Waxy and slightly oily.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Dry with the oak, a tiny bit of chocolate.

Seems like a refill Bourbon one. Nice and natural.

70/100

?

Highland Park 18 43%

Colour: Dark Gold

Body: Medium

Nose: Complex. Nut- Walnut, damp wood, dunnage warehouse, wood polish, dark chocolate, strong coffee, leather, toffee, fudge and caramel. Coastal- Sea air and spray, small wisps of smoke- Campfire on the beach. Sweetness starts to appear- Lots of barley sugar, marzipan, almond, thick cream, vanilla, sweet syrupy honey, brown sugar, stewed fruit- Apple, apple pie, cherry, cocktail cherry, juicy orange and roasted chestnut.

After time- Ah, here comes the smoke. A heathery, woody, outdoorsy smoke.

Water: More sherried and sweet, more cocktail cherry, raisins soaked in apple brandy, driftwood.

Taste: Creamy arrival, then gradually coming back with spices and fruit. Sherried stewed fruit- Cherry, raisin, date, thick honey, malt, leather, toffee, building spice- Nutmeg and some heather smoke. Developing drying coffee, more malt, ash, tannins, sea salt, bitter orange and lime peel, dark chocolate. The oak is part of the drying development and carries it through really well.

Water: Less creamy arrival with more oak and tannins, toffee coffee, maybe more sweet oak, more heather. After time the chocolate and malt really take over.

Finish: Medium/Long length. Drying, lots of coffee with hints of smoke and a final sea salt hit!

A great whisky, takes time to open up and you are really rewarded if you keep this in your mouth for a full 18 seconds.

81/100

?

Thanks for reading! Next up is some much older HP for my 300th!!

Reviews #296-#298



Full Disclosure Disclaimer: I currently work as a Brand Ambassador for Penderyn Distillery. The views expressed here are purely my own and do not reflect the views of Penderyn Distillery or The Welsh Whisky Company. I try to maintain as much objectivity as I can but feel free to take my reviews with as big a pinch of salt as you like. Furthermore, I have never accepted free samples from anyone in the whisky industry, but have bought bottles or samples with my money, bringing a different set of biases. Also, my rating scale is NOT based on a Parker type wine scoring scale or a school/college/university % or A-F grade score. I apologise for any seemly low or 'bad' scores given with my system and am sorry I can't say only nice things. Please keep in mind that I am ethically compromised and am unable to produce 100% unbiased reviews.

?

Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/highlandpark121518

Network Average: 74.4

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



u/Unclimbability hasn?t reviewed any Highland Park yet?! You don?t say? 

Ha, it's always surprising to me when someone with hundreds of reviews has never reviewed something basic. Good reviews, "coffee" is always my main impression of HP but I don't see that note in many others' reviews.



Haha Yeah, always get a lot of coffee with HP and Sherry.

I realised though, I have reviewed one: Dark Origins. Totally forgot!



Being distracted from doing that large projects you want to start by the small stuff you also want to do is an odd concept. Like, you're still productive, yet you're not at the same time.

For instance, as I've tried to hint/blather about a Tomatin 8 multi-review that I've gathered components for. And don't worry, by Summer, I should eventually start trying them out. Yet I keep getting distracted by other whisky. #firstworldproblems.

But why, oh why, do we care did I not start, I hear you ask?

Oh, you know, went out to the pub, sat down, and saw they had a good rum and Scotch selection, so I swapped out on review for another. And this review is on the next level malts list, so, you know, it's a good idea to get it done... right? So I can pretend like I know what I'm saying act legitimate?

Quick note: Based on the glass, this was really hard to review. I'm not doubting my score or nose notes, I'm just saying, this was hard mode without a Glencairn.

Anyway, instead of beginning the Tomatin Royal Rumble, I bring to you today a review for Highland Park 15, or as /u/texacer calls it, "The One you can Skip". However that list is there for a reason, and I'm finishing it, because... well, why are mountains there? Because of tectonic plates crashing together, fault lines grinding together, magma pushing up, extinct volcanoes, or erosion? 

No, so we can climb them. Or all that other stuff. Probably all that other stuff. Most likely.

Moving on...

Highland Park 15 follows Highland Parks methods, or "Five Keystones". These include Hand Turning the malt, Aromatic Peat, Cool Maturation, Mostly using Sherry Oak Casks, and Harmonization. As such, based on the above, we can see why Highland Park typically has that "little bit of everything" taste to it.

But enough jibber jabber, let's get to the booze!

Price: N/A in Ontario

Region: Island

Abv: 43%

Colour:  Pilsner

Nose: Acid, earth, sweet peat, mellow apple, light fall spices, clover honey, pear

Like I said above (and shown in the picture), the glass was not helping, however I used some tricks to intensify the amount of whisky getting into my nose. This is similar to the 12 year, yet a lot more mellow. It's calmed down as it gets older, matured into a respectable member of society. Like John Wayne Gacy did.

Wait, maybe not the best analogy... Moving on...

Taste: Sweet cumin, ginger, tomato, orange rind,  canned pear, pepper, olive oil, apple

That tomato acid taste is very unique to Highland Park. I usually assume I'm going insane whenever I smell it, which is probably a sure bet, however it still weirds me out.

More earthiness on this one, yet again, reminiscent of the 12 year old.

Finish: Earth, cinnamon, smoke, currant, pepper

Simple, general "This hear is Scotch" finish to it, as expected. The sherry element only comes into play at the end I find, save for some spices in the taste.

Meh.

Conclusion: Skip this one and just buy the 12 year. I'm not saying it's bad or the same as the 12 year. This is more mellow, has a slight edge in balance. Yet is it worth spending an extra $20-$30 on? Not for me. 

If I'm to review this one ignoring the 12 year, I'd say that it's the whisky that does everything to let you try it all out. There's a sherry influence (though minor), it's peated (though minor), there's that earthy quality, and there's a good mouthfeel and tastes of fruit. Have it with some cheese.

81/100

Scotch review #145, Island review #14

Other Highland Park reviews:

Highland Park 12

Highland Park 25

P.S. The burger I had was amazing, and when they said it was spicy, they didn't mess around. Burnt my mouth to heck (review done before burger). They have other, great, not spicy, tasty food, so check out the Village Idiot Pub in Toronto some time, across from the AGO, which was also great, as it's currently having the Great Upheaval exhibit from the Guggenheim. Both really interesting. Well priced at the pub too, so it compliments a day of walking around the Gallery nicely. Great fries as well.



It's just... meh. I understand that it was originally a travel exclusive, and 'due to popularity', they brought it out for everyone.... 

Really HP? Why not just give us a port cask one instead?



aw you get probably my last reddit gold username mention.  I'll be free of it today! 

this bottle:  Highland Park 15