Last Friday I had several whisky drinking friends over to my place for a bbq/whisky night. On the docket this evening was the not-much-loved Jura distillery. All in all, I was able to try the 10, 16, Superstition, and Prophecy.

I'll do a quick review of each, and then follow it up with my overall thoughts on the distillery/lineup.

Jura 10 - 43%, $30 (review #36)

Total: 67/100 

Jura 16 - 43%, $50 (review #37)

Total: 80/100 

Jura Superstition - 43%, $48 (review #38)

Total: 73/100 

Jura Prophecy - 46%, $60 (review #39)

Total: 75/100 

Ok. So, yes... the noses on these bottles. As the bottles were opened the night I sampled, I don't know if this goes away over time. But for fuck's sake do these bottles have weird (and potentially horrendous) noses when you first crack them. For the first time that I can remember saying it, but the thing I liked least about these whiskies were the noses. I'm a big fan of smelling a glass of whisky. I would never, in a million years do that with Jura. 

But even with the nose being full of stink the whisky always tasted reasonably good. Now, a whisky can taste dramatically different than the nose, but with the noses being as bad as some of these were, I was nothing short of surprised. They actually taste quite nice.

In short; Jura tastes pretty good and smells pretty bad. They're definitely unique, but nothing I will ever buy. If you must try one, I'd recommend the 16. This, of course, assumes you don't want to odd shock of the nose... in which case try Superstition. 

(And finally, for the record, the corks were in good shape. This isn't a matter of cork rot.)



Yeah, I find the oxidation idea quite credible. I mean, just over 5-10 minutes the nose improved fairly significantly. But even then, the nose still wasn't very good. On the other hand, I had some Jura 10 with rockindaddy a few months back, and found it pleasant enough at the time. 

Overall, I think the best part of the evening was talking about how odd these whiskies were with other whisky drinkers.



ISLAND REGION

REVIEW #14: Isle of Arran 10 year - 46% abv 

Nose: Light, crisp, refreshing, lemon rind, dry wood, sawdust, vanilla, coffee, sugar, white wine, creme brulee, walnut, almond, seaspray

Taste: Sweet, crisp, fruity, woody, actually fizzy on the tongue, very interesting.

Finish: Lingering sweetness and some seaspray, sawdust and lemon.

Score: 85/100

Buy a full bottle? Maybe.  

Closing Thoughts: I liked it.  I liked The Classic Laddie a bit better, but I?d still be pleased to unwrap this bottle as a gift.  Very light, crisp and refreshing.  A nice alternative to the heavily spiced or heavily smoked monsters.  A good summer dram when you want whisky by the campfire instead of lemonade?  

REVIEW #15: Talisker 10 year - 45.8% abv 

Nose: Smoke.  Pungent.  Red apples.

Taste: Black pepper, smoky, strong.  I get the red apples again?maybe overripe apples and some saltiness.

Finish: Lingering pepper.  Long and spicy.  Warm.

Score: 83/100

Buy a full bottle? Maybe.  I wanna try the Distiller?s Edition.

Closing Thoughts: It?s good, but there was a big gap of time between this tasting and the Islay tasting, so my brain wants to say that if I?m going to have a peaty / smoky whisky, then I should drink the Lagavulin 16 that blew me away, and that this doesn?t quite reach the same level as that.  Not having a photographic (?) taste memory is proving to be a problem.  I can?t drink ALL the whiskies side by side in a single night, but if I go any length of time between samplings, I forget exactly what a previous sample tasted like.  Tricky business.

REVIEW #16: Highland Park 12 year - 40% abv 

Nose: Nice nose, Heather Honey, sweetness, dryer peaty smokiness.  I think I heard ?twiggy peat? somewhere.

Taste: Thin, non-existent, what the hell?  I pour some on my tongue, and it just evaporates immediately.  No oily, velvety coating, no mouthfeel.  It?s gone so fast it?s difficult to care what flavors there might be.  Very disappointing.

Finish: Disappears almost immediately, not much of a finish at all.  Very drying.

Score: 82/100

Buy a full bottle? No

Closing Thoughts: Overall this was a big shocker.  I expected great things from this whisky and it was just so thin and meh that I won?t be looking to buy a full bottle.

REVIEW #17: Highland Park 18 year - 43% abv 

Nose: More of the heather honey, more softened all around, more mature, stewed fruits, hint of coffee, aromatic smoke

Taste: again with the thin, evaporating palate. I guess I really like the heavier and oilier mouthfeels.  Not much to talk about here.

Finish: What finish?  Very drying again.  Makes me want to drink water to quench my thirst instead of more whisky.

Score: 85/100

Buy a full bottle? No

Closing Thoughts: Another disappointment from Highland Park.  After reading so many stellar reviews and hearing all the praise for these bottles we were in shock that it didn?t push our buttons.  The noses were great and complex and interesting, but it lost us with the thin and vaporous palate and dry finish.

REVIEW #18: Isle of Jura 16 year - Diurach?s Own - 40% abv 

Nose: Honey, caramel, dark chocolate, orange, green apple, nutmeg, cinnamon

Taste: Rich, sweet, spices, oily, mouthcoating

Finish: Warm, sweet, moderately mouth-watering, lasting spiciness

Score: 88/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes!

Closing Thoughts: Very good!  Complex, spicy, herbal, sweet, vegetal, dried fruits? lots going on here.  The great nose carries into the palate and leaves you with something to think about in the finish.  Much more my style of dram.

REVIEW #19: Isle of Jura Prophecy - 46% abv 

Nose: Heavy peat, floral, fruit, smoke

Taste: Nose carries over into the palate.  Nicely balanced.  The peat is in the background.  

Finish: Warm, salty, mouth-watering, smoke, subtle peat in the background.

Score: 88/100

Buy a full bottle? Yes, but the Lagavulin 16 is better.  

Closing Thoughts: If I could only have one, I?d grab the Lagavulin 16.  But this is a really good whisky and I?d be glad to unwrap it as a gift.

TO BE CONTINUED?



GET THIS MAN A FLAIR AND TARTAN!

What a great sample pack you've just reviewed! I like your style, just diving right in to the bogs of Islay! 



IslayIsle of Jura. 46% ABV.

Score: 87/100

This was a pleasant surprise. I hated Superstition and had pretty much written off the whole distillery for that reason alone but after this I'm willing to give them another try. I still don't like their packaging - the bottles just seem tacky to me.

I believe this is released annually but all I had was a sample from Master of Malt so I have no idea what year mine was.



Wow, I was expecting this to be low numbers. I think this is the first positive review of Jura from a veteran of /r/scotch that I've seen. Great review! It does sound pretty delicious.

Glad to see it's 46%! - Won't pass this one by if I get the chance to sample it.



I'm new to scotch and i just purchased a bottle of this the other week and I really have enjoyed it. 

I do love that real Peaty smokey flavour. 

Good review :) 



I actually quite enjoyed the bottle of Superstition I picked up almost exclusively because the bottle/box was something different. I get that Scotch is almost entirely about old tradition, but something new might be fun, right? RIGHT? It's been a good bottle to share with my father as his palette is more inclined toward the Canadian Club or Crown Royal than a member of the glorious single malt master race.

At any rate, thanks for the review, it sounds like I will like Prophecy.



this is: the peatiest offering from Isle of Jura. My history with Jura is limited to one previous offering, but it's a noteworthy one because it represents my biggest change in opinion of a malt yet. Jura's "Superstition" was the first bottle of peaty single malt I ever bought. I loved it, ranking it up with greats like Talisker 10 and Balvenie 15. Over a year later I tried it again after I began taking tasting notes and found it pretty disappointing. However,  I've recently been revisiting distilleries that left me wanting, thus this dram of Prophecy. 46%ABV, $80.  

color: dark red amber... color added?  

nose: perfume-peat... grass, lavender, dry peat, black Sharpee, and iodine.  

taste: thin... malt, caramel, corn syrup, and slight alcohol burn.  

finish: chemical peat... brine, light peat, more grass and iodine, wormwood, and hairspray. Not lasting.  

conclusions: not the best example of a basic peater. Similar to Bowmore. Too thin in the mouth, too short in the finish, too "chemical" in the finish as well. Jura has not been treating me well. Maybe the 3rd time will be a charm? 73/100



Jura Prophecy

Thanks to /u/Devoz for the swap.

Colour:  Reddish golden orange.

Nose: Custard, peat smoke, sweet strawberries, caramel, brown sugar, and a very nice pronounced vanilla.  Very subtle pungent wood and brine throughout.

Palate: Banana, bubble gum, grape punch, carrot juice, bitter citrus.

Finish: Medium peat, berries, sea salt, and honey for a somewhat short and dry finish.

The peat smoke is on the light/medium side.  While the flavours are agreeable and slightly unique, they taste strangely subdued for 46% abv.

Pleasant enough, but not something I'd be quick to seek out.  I generally like peated whisky, and I generally like the slightly pungent quality of Island scotch so this is getting some extra points simply for these qualities.

84/100

Other Jura reviews:

Jura Superstition - 83/100

Jura 10 - 70/100

Jura 13 Year 1989 Murray McDavid - 85/100

Jura 16 Diurach's Own - 79/100



Distilled/Owned by: Jura / Whyte & Mackay

Region: Island

46% ABV

Mashbill: 100% malted barley

Aged For: NAS

Cask Type: Ex-bourbon, finished in sherry

Chill Filtered: No

Color Added: Yes

Color: Copper

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn.

Nose: Moss, gentle smoke, tar, salt, and wet cardboard

Mouthfeel: Intermediate

Palate/Taste: Caramel, smoke, earth, cinnamon, and pepper

Finish: Medium warmth with smoke, oak, charcoal, and cinnamon

Thoughts: Weak nose, but the body and finish are decent with an earthy peat flavor.

Score: 77/100



wtf does the title mean and/or why is this review of such poor quality??!?  This is a semi-blind review - all notes composed blind, with post-reveal commentary in italics

Initial Impressions: little bit of everything - peat, sherry, malt and highland funk.  It's a mutt; a fruit salad.

Nose: highland funk (the closest definition I have is plastic bucket full of rotten geraniums in the summer sun) mingled with a hint of sherry.  Malt and alcohol make up the second wave.  Behind all this, I think I can find a little smoke, a little salt, and a little wooden vanilla.

Taste: Leads with a suggestion of sweet peat (Laphroaig 18-ish), which gives way to a nicely integrated assortment of flavors - malt, sherry-like fruits, a tinge of geraniums and grass, some wood influence and a mild-building-to-medium burn (spicy fruit in nature).  

Finish: starts out as the same combo as the later taste, but this pleasantness dissolves fairly quickly to a bare wooden burn.

I enjoyed this.  It's hardly "very peated" but it's got a good mix of peat and other scotch flavors.  I feel it's rare that I've had a scotch which does so well at presenting so many of the various scotch flavors in a single dram - usually one (peat, sherry, or highland funk) takes over and dominates all the others.  Actually, peat does take over more and more as I near the bottom of the glass.  So bonus points for that, deduct a point or two for the weird finish and the appearance of highland funk and we're left with

Score: 91.5/100

As reluctant as I am to re-hash ancient history, I do feel a need to thank /u/bigmoneysalsa for the sample.



wet socks

I know I'm rushing these reviews a bit, but I haven't encountered anything like this or B.O. /u/tvraisedme.  Would you guys say that's present in all Jura, or just the Prophecy?  If the latter, I'll have to hunt some more down.



Hi Scotchit! Well, the Isle of Jura must have a very exceptional climate when palm trees are able to grow there. It's just amazing when you think the region is located as far north as the southern parts of Alaska. (Gulf Stream FTW: the yard of the distillery looks like a Jurassic park... Ha!)

Jura Prophecy

Heavily Peated

Islands, 46%

color: auburn

nose: pungent, fermented fruits, saw dust, machine room, honey, vanilla, peat

taste: smoke, spiced bread, cinnamon, bubble-gum, hazelnuts, lemon drops, blackberries

finish: soft and medium long

Yes there is some smoke. But I wouldn't call this heavily peated. Softly peated: yes.

Fusty nose. Spicy and sweet on the palate. Creamy mouthfeel. The finish is not very distinctive.

Not as bad as I was told.

82/100



At one point I was dreaming of getting a dram of their 1984, but what the hell is up with this price: https://www.masterofmalt.com/whiskies/isle-of-jura/jura-1984-bottled-2014-whisky/

Their normal 30yo is ~490 EUR, but I guess the other half comes from the "collectability"



Hi everyone,

Got another multi-review dump today. It?s Jura. No, we?re not going to dump on Jura? Ok, maybe a little, but it hasn?t really got the best reputation. Maybe for good reason.

Anyway, it?s the only distillery on the Isle of Jura, just over the way from Islay. But unlike most Islay drams, they mostly make unpeated whisky. A smaller portion of peated whisky is made under other labels. Both are reviewed here.

?

Jura 10 Origin 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Bit of salt, yeasty, flour, bread, butter, caramel, bit of floral, some honey, cereal, fruity note- Apple.

Taste: Light and sweet, oily, brine, salt, honey, faint spice, coffee, butter, heather bit of pepper, very mild citrus fruit.

Finish: Short length. Disappears with faint hints of oak.

Not the best, but quite cheap on deal.

61/100

?

Jura 12 Elixir 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Medium

Nose: Lots of caramel, nuts, spice, fruity- Plums?

Taste: Caramel, toffee, fudge, more chewy caramel, bit of spice, tiny bit of smoke.

Finish: Short length. Oaky spice.

Very simple, a one note whisky really. Just overwhelming caramel.

65/100

?

Jura 16 Duirach's Own 40%

Colour: E150a

Body: Medium

Nose: Sweet and relaxed. Baking bread, yeast, raisins, apricot, rising dough, pastry, strudel, brioche, sherry, cinnamon and nutmeg. Burnt pastry.

Taste: Sweet start, sherry raisin, apricot bread, cinnamon, nutmeg, liquorice and some hay. A tiny bit of beach bonfire in the background. Bit of rough spice.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Sweet and syrupy ending with sherry and raisins.

A little bit better, but not really a fan of the burnt pastry style.

68/100

?

Jura Superstition 43%

Colour: E150a

Body: Medium

Nose: Lots of spice, tonnes of cinnamon, nutmeg, pepper, touch of smoke. Some sweetness with a cakey vanilla.

Taste: Fruity with lots of spicy cinnamon and some fruit and vanilla.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Spice with some smoke and salt.

Lightly peated, NAS. This is better, I like the cinnamon note on this.

70/100

?

Jura Prophecy 46%

Colour: E150a

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Classic Jura, bready and malty, sour dough, sea spray, green oak, cinnamon, a little fresh ginger, Island-eque peat smoke, some lemon.

Water: More smoke and gingerbread. Seaweed and sea salt bread dough?

Taste: Sharp, some sour lemon and a little lime, then sea spray and Talisker-esque smoke, quite spicy with cinnamon and lots of spicy ginger, then more smoke into the finish.

Water: Softer arrival, a little medicinal note, bandages.

Finish: Medium length. Salty smoke then a baking note.

Islay peat smoked (Port Ellen) to 40ppm. Tasted blind I might have guessed Talisker.

73/100

?

Thanks for reading!

Reviews #276-#280

Network Review #300!! Yay!



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.blogspot.com/jurareviews

Network Average: 74.8

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



Totally agree on these, especially the Elixir. The syrupy cloying sweetness just overpowered everything for me. But I did find myself enjoying the Superstition, maybe the peat helped to mask the off notes?

Also I could be wrong, but I think the Elixir is bottled at 46% (not that it really does it any good). 



One okay Jura deserves another. That's what my ancestor's used to say... until they were horribly maimed by Islanders who felt losing their land was an affront.

But enough about my checkered ancestry, first up I'd like to thank /u/Devoz from the bottom of my potentially sinned family heart for a sample of this dram. I've been wanting to try it for awhile now.

Isle of Jura Prophecy is a NAS offering from Isle of Jura. Limited to 10,000 bottles per year, this version is made up of various different casks of peated whiskies, and finished off in Oloroso sherry cask. It's also non-chill filtered, which I'm impressed by.

The name comes from an old legend involving a soothsayer/seer/crackpot who cursed the Campbell family when she was thrown out of Jura back in the 1700s. Her obtuse prediction came true, and thus we have a whisky now.

Let me tell you something about curses: My family has one, and it says we'll all be self-deprecating, and I don't really think....

Well damn.

Price: N/A at the LCBO at the moment

Region: Island

Abv: 46%

Colour: Orange-Brown

Nose: Peat, cinnamon, anise, rubber, nutmeg, oak, dusty leather books, little bit of peach

Strong spices come off this one. I'd be lying if I didn't say I love cinnamon, and this has it in spades. And it takes a long time to really open up. I spent at least two episodes of Archer finding each nook and cranny on this one.

Taste: Earth, smoke, pepper, anise, turnip, allspice, ham, carrot, milk chocolate

I wonder if drinking this will remove the curse.... wait, that's dumb. I'm being stupid.

Well, it would seem it doesn't.

Anyway, this is earthier than peat. Think more like a dry highland than an Islay. Tons of spice too to match. Almost too much of each. Actually yes, there's too much earth.

Which, in hindsight, I wish my great great great grandfather had said when he was burying those Gypsies as punishment for stealing a turnip. Oh well, guess we're all idiots.

Finish: Sea salt, nutmeg, ginger, wood, orange zest

Salty finish, which is to be expected from an Island dram. Less earth than before. Actually less of everything. The finish is a weak point on this one.

Granted so was building our home on a Native burial ground, but other than our pets coming back to life, it's worked out well for us.

Conclusion: Cards on the table: All of the above is a joke. My family weren't butcherers, on either side. They were basically all farmers. We're not cursed, I just use self-deprecation as a coping tool for years as a nerd.

But what about this whisky? Well, it's tasty, for one. I'd go out and say better than Superstition, if only by a little bit. I think there's definitely some room for improvement. There's too much earth in the taste, and the little amount of red fruit from the sherry is almost lost.

I'd say this is a nice dram to sit back with. The price is a little steep for what you get though, so I'd probably only have a dram of it every so often, and stick to the Superstition.

80/100

Scotch review #235, Island review #23, Whisky Network review #345

1001 Whiskies to Taste before you die review #181

Other Isle of Jura Reviews:

Isle of Jura 10 Origin

Isle of Jura 16 Diurachs' Own

Isle of Jura Superstition

Isle of Jura Battlehill 18 year

Isle of Jura 1966 Douglas Laing Old Malt Cask



All of the above is a joke  

Whew! I was going to have to warn you: sometimes dead is better... Great review!



My current whisky network average = 79.25

Standard Deviation = 8.28

Skewness = -2.06298

Kurtosis = 6.89794