Hello Scotchit, SeienShin here! As you probably all know, I'm a big Kilchoman fanboy, and with good reason. They keep things as traditional as they possibly can while never colouring or chill filtering their malts. They even release single cask bottlings at fair prices costing about as much as their original cask strength.

But that's not why were here today. Kilchoman released the Sanaig last month. And it is about the same price as the Machir Bay and therefore a lot cheaper than Loch Gorm. Looks flashy with the purple label and all. The colour of the whisky is nice as well, but is it any good? First I will get to post a review of the 2015 Machir Bay and Loch Gorm, to see how they all compare, before we get to the Sanaig. Let's find out!

Review #43: Kilchoman Machir Bay 2015, a vatting of 80% ex-bourbon casks and 20% ex-sherry casks (please feel free to correct me if I'm wrong)

?47.50 for 70cl.

ABV 46%. NCF, Natural Colour.

The latest instalment of their standard offering, although I can't really tell the difference between all of them, they are pretty consistent as far as I'm concerned, but, since I've never actually posted a review of this: here we go:

Colour: Light yellow. Nothing really special here. Natural though.

Nose: Earthy peat, salty sea air, wet rocks, damp hay in a stable, citrus peels, burnt wood, malty

This is as much as a refined and complex nose I have smelled across any high end Islay.

Palate: Nice oily mouthfeel. I feel it is lighter than the nose promises, but not in a really bad way. Vanilla is kind of up front. Lemon candy. Earthy peat, smoke, seaweed, a little medicinal but not overly so. Smoked meat.

Nice mouth full, and a nice balance between fresh, sweet and earthy.

Finish: Medium long. Smoke lingers. Spicy and salty, with a nice earthy note on the finish as you exhale.

Overall: I know I am a Kilchoman fanboy and I know it's clich?, but this is a great entry level Islay. I would certainly recommend you try this one if you are looking to get into peated malts. It's really complex and this is still a young whisky from a young distillery. If they keep this up great things will happen!

Rating: 91/100. This tops the 90/100 because it's so complex all the way from the nose to the finish, excellent malt. I would compare it to older peated malts but at a fraction of the cost. 

Next up we have Loch Gorm 2015, their sherry finished expression. Looks very cool with the black label and box design

Review #44: Kilchoman Loch Gorm 2015, ex-bourbon matured for 5 years and then finished in Oloroso sherry butts (please feel free to correct me if I'm wrong)

?72.50 for 70cl.

ABV 46%. NCF, Natural Colour.

I have already posted a review of the 2014 Loch Gorm, but this is the 2015 and my palate may have changed: here we go:

Colour: Light brownish. Not as dark as you would expect from a sherry finished malt, but that could be because they don't finish it for very long.

Nose: Earthy peat, salty sea air, wet rocks, poached pears, plums, raisins but a little bit in the back as it is very lightly sherried.

Like the Machir Bay this is a very nice nose, with some extra sherry notes the 20% in the Machir Bay didn't provide somehow.

Palate: Nice oily mouthfeel. Salty, earthy peat, light sherry, peardrops, citrus peels, smoked oak, slightly bitter. Roasted almonds.

Much less in your face than the Machir Bay and I'm not sure if I like that. It's a nice malt, but if anything I would rate this lower rather than higher.

Finish: Medium long. Smoke lingers. Fruity and spicy, slightly bitter finish. The roasted almonds are more apparent in the finish.

Overall: This is by no means a bad whisky, but I feel like this is a step down from the Machir Bay rather than a step up. At roughly 150% of the cost I just cannot justify it. If it were the same price it would be a nice change of pace.

Rating: 85/100. Still a nice malt, but it lacks the major step up from the Machir Bay I would expect at the price. If the Machir Bay didn't exist I would still jump on this, therefore still worth 85 points to me.

Alright, now we have those two out of the way, let's get to the malt we're all so curious about. Is it any good? Is it gimmicky? Or is it just another stellar malt by Kilchoman? Let's see!

Review #45: Kilchoman Sanaig, a vatting of 50% ex-bourbon casks and 50% ex-sherry casks and I heard that this is about 4 years old. (please feel free to correct me if I'm wrong)

?49.50 for 70cl. (Roughly the same price as the Machir Bay)

ABV 46%. NCF, Natural Colour.

Colour: Much darker than both the Machir Bay and Loch Gorm. Almost has an orange hue to it. To me, knowing that Kilchoman doesn't artificially colour their expressions, this looks promising.

Nose: There it is: Sweet sherry right off the bat. Smoke and earthy peat take a back seat and take some time to reveal themselves. Salty sea air. Burnt sugar and vanilla, red apples (finally some apples that aren't fucking green). Poached pears.

Alright, the nose is finally something different from the Machir Bay. Wonderfully complex with the sweet sherry notes, salty sea air and variety of fruits.

Palate: Nice oily mouthfeel (what else is new? But yeah Kilchoman does this awesomely). BOOM! There's the earthy Kilchoman character! The nose was very delicate and sweet and the smoke and peat really took a backseat. Not on the palate they don't. Smoldering hot coals. Actual fudge. Not that sickeningly sweet note you get in some of those Glengoyne type malts. A whole barrage of fruits, like red apples, poached pears and such. Leave it for a while and the earthiness becomes more apparent, as well as citrus flavours taking over the apples and poached pear flavours. Also some spices like cinnamon.

Complex, reminds me of Ardbeg Uigeadail, but with a fuller body and  a lot more going on in the glass.

Finish: Longer than both the Machir Bay and Loch Gorm. A well balanced finish of earthy peat, smoldering hot coals, dark red fruits and caramel goodness.

Overall: Alright, I was sceptical about this one, mostly because Loch Gorm fails to really impress me compared to the Machir Bay. And when I heard they were just making a sweeter Machir Bay I didn't think that highly of it. But the price was right and I pulled the trigger and I'm glad I did because this is much, much more than just a sweeter Machir Bay. It's balanced, full bodied and not overly sweet, like I was expecting it to be.

Rating: 94/100. It's safe to say that this beats out the other two and if they continue making this I will consider always having a bottle on hand. My favourite malt to date is the single cask Oloroso bottling Kilchoman did for WIN, but this is actually more balanced and easier to drink. Not to mention the friendly price. I would truly recommend this as I feel pretty confident in saying they succeeded with this one.



ooooooo..  I want some Kilchoman Sanaig. Shame it's only in Europe at the moment (from what I can tell).

Also, I thought loch gorm is 100% oloroso sherry.. One of the editions was finished, but I they changed their minds (I could have that the wrong way around).



I'm about 90% certain that last time around Machir Bay was 4 year old and 3 year old distillate, with the 3 year old being finished for 6 months in sherry casks. And also that the Loch Gorm is fully sherry matured, not finished.

And based on this review, I'll have to buy a couple of Sanaigs.



I was sceptical as well. Mostly because one website described it as: a sweeter Machir Bay for the French market. I guess you have to second guess everything you read because I haven't seen any confirmation about that French market and it is much, much more than a sweeter Machir Bay. 

Edit: the source is www.drankdozijn.nl
They have been full of shit in some of their descriptions in the past and I was wrong to assume something they wrote. I do understand that my review is only an opinion as well though. 



I love me some Kilchoman too! Unfortunately I only get to buy what the local store chain gets, so I have Machir Bay 2014 and 100% Islay 4th edition at the moment.

Whatever the next release we get is I will probably get it, they make some quality juice in my opinion.



Reviews #3 - 14

Hello Scotchit ! 

I'm coming back from Spirits in the Sky 2015 which is Brussels' "whisky live". I thought you might be interested to know what I thought about many a recent release, so I'll just go with three categories : absolute favourites (think 90-95), "extremely good but maybe just a little less amazing" (think 85-90), and disappointments.

Sadly, these reviews won't be extremely long nor very soulful compared to my first and second review because I just couldn't afford exploring each and every dram's subtelties during 20 minutes each. Please do take scores with a grain of salt. Let's go !

Absolute favourites

Overripe and decadent. Nose is mature yet uncomromising, mixing  loam-like peat with juicy, sugary red fruits like rasperry jam. What I especially like is that the palate holds everything that the nose promised, which is actually a very rare feature in a whisky imho. Body is thick, proof is spot on. around 92/100

How can this be so greatly sherried at such young age ? Cask selection done right, I guess. This is not your typical sherry, it's much more personnal than most OB's in the same style and price (Glenfarclas, Macallan, Aberlour). Quite exotic and on the very fruity side, not the nutty-dusty one. Not a single bitter or tanic note. A pleasure, and incredible value. around 90/100

Although I simply adore the 12 OB, this seems to be one step ahead. It's incredibly generous on the nose with humid earth, pear pie and a general roundness whereas many young Islay can be rather closed and over-saline on the nose. Palate is in the same vein. This is an anti-harsh, perfectly balanced Islay, just as you would expect from Caol Ila, but with an opulent side nonetheless. around 90/100

God. Damn. It. I'm speechless. Incredibly round earthy, forestian, rooty peat with their textbook tarry smell coupled to an uber-generous herbal side (thyme, sage). The whole plays with mellow sweetness that makes me think of barbecued marshmallows in the best sense you can possibly imagine. There's no word to describe how generous and splendid this is. Probably my favourite of the night along with the next one. And at this price, not buying it should be illegal I guess, unless you can't stand any form of peat. This is not even remotely comparable to machir bay imho ? around 93/100 (Useful note : I never scored anything higher than 93 so far, even in my unreleased reviews)

?.. I tasted it just after the Sanaig, thinking this couldn't be as good. ?.. This is so good it's almost sad. We're on the same humid earthy peat backbone as before but this time, the sweetness is different. Almost rotten exotic fruit (think flambeed banans), cointreau, and overwhelming fudgy cr?me brul?e. A slaughter again. Thanks Kilchoman for releasing such amazing things. around 93/100

I had high expectations towards this one. They were fullfilled. Complex, and extremely intriguing with a very wide range of flavours : black tea, leather, tomato concentrate, candied violet ? It's one of those times were sherry and peat don't sum up but mix into something that can't be described as the sum of its components. Grain is present and brings more complexity without any kind of bland solventy vanilla. around 91/100

Extremely spirity. This is very, very close to the initial distillate but this is by no means a flaw. It's fresh, bright, complex, mellow, and just plain "pure". Why mess with wood, wine, sugar and marketting when your distillate is that good ? I tried it side by side with the new Octomore Oc2 from the same range. I couldn't manage to prefer one over the other. However, one costs one third of the other. around 90/100

Extremely good but just a little less amazing

Even if I'm aware that "green" has nothing to do with the intended taste (rather biological production method), it's incredibly fresh and vegetal. Should you think that Glendronach is quite autumnal, this is spring in a bottle. A slight oiliness goes with juicy and unusual notes of rose-perfumed turkish delights, watermelon, cut humid grass, fresh mint, green apple ? Hakushu has found  its scotch counterpart. Clean, natural, "healthy" somehow. Quite oddly, I didn't get any sherry in it despite its sherry maturation (probably second or third fill). This is actually the exact opposite of springbank 21, yet both are amazing. Congrats to this distillery. around 89/100

This was a brand new bottling from two weeks ago only, so nowhere to be found in shops yet I guess. 3 years in bourbon then 5 in spanish Barolo casks. This has a very special sherried style in that it is very sharp and defined. Think of a perfect shiny cube when Glenfarclas 15 is a dusty sphere. Quite spicy and oaky for such young age, very cinammony. What's more, it's not gonna be very expensive on release, they said. around 87/100

We don't hear quite much about this one ? well, we should. It's definitely more fresh and exotic compared to the rest of the range, which is quite buttery, nutty and quaint. Apple juice, strawberries, some kind of a fresh smoke puff ?around 87/100

This was matured in first-fill bourbon and bottled at ?. 46? !! At last, they've done it ! And when you taste it, you're right to think that it was about time. This is what bourbon wood can do best. It's not about generic shy honey-vanilla but rather about warm and wet sawdust, salty fudge, nutty oils and clove. This is simply better than their new (and shockingly priced) 21 yo, imho. Sadly, I heard this was a Belgium-France exclusive, but if you manage to find it, don't hesitate. Very fairly priced. Around 88/100

This seemed to be what everyone there was wanting to taste. Seriously, while it's good, I don't quite get the hype. The smoky backbone is not the very damp and earthy one I loved so much but rather something spicy and leathery like Uigedail can be. I find candied violet again (? just as in ? Uigeadail) and many acidic notes (red currants). I can see why people love it and Uigeadail fans will like that, but it's not nearly as good as Sanaig and Madeira to me. around 86/100

To be completely honest I will have to re-taste this one because my palate was just exhausted yesterday . Don't worry, I've got a sample waiting, it will get a full review in time I guess, so I'm not counting this as a review. That said, it's very good, there's no hesitation about that. Supple and elegant yet spicy, leafy and a bit salmony at times. I won't score this one today, but rest assured, it's good. 

Disappointments

New Dalmore 21

Dalmore King Alexander III

The Port Askaig range as a whole : have tasted anything from 100 proof up to 30yo and the only acceptable ones were 16yo and 30yo to me.

Balvenie Tun 1509 batch 2 : the subtle fruity and honeyd notes are locked behind drying, acidic sherry and a completely excessive oakiness. This is not bad per se, certainly not, just disappointing as my first Tun, and bad value to say the least.

Other un-reviewed favourites but really expensive, really rare, or both.

Ardbeg 17 1999 : cereals, cereals everywhere. Roasted sesame seeds, bread crust, zucchini seeds ? incredible balance.

White Horse blend 1960's : incrediby round and leathery

Bunnahabhain 25 : same style as Springbank 21 with more leather, brine and a cheesy side but plenty of red fruits as well

Octomore Oc2 Elements of Islay : same vein as Lg5, pure, zesty ? but too expensive for such young - even if flawless - spirit.

Non-scotch favourites I'll just list them without reviewing because this is off-subject, but be aware that all of them would easily go in the 90-95 category.

Teeling 21 Sauternes and 26 White Burgundy (Irish)

Kavalan Solist Bourbon Oak (Taiwan)

Kavalan Sherry Oak 46? (Taiwan)

Mackmyra Moment Barnsten (Sweden)

? Damn, I actually wrote quite a lot ? Hope you enjoyed it though !



As with my last submission here, this one is a collection of reviews that I did quickly at an event so some aren?t as fully fleshed-out as I would like. Sorry. :/

?

Highland Park Dark Origins (Single Malt, Island, 46.8% ABV, Natural Colour, NCF, NAS)  

Price:  $107 CAD  

Tasted:  At an Edrington Group table at a tasting.  

Colour:  Amber +3  

Nose:  Sickly sweet, but rife with heather and sherry cask influence. Saccharine and earthy, floral and salty. A touch of peat smoke and caramel apple.  

Palate:  Luscious smoke, peat, sherry cask influence. Lavender and heather?both fresh and singed?menthol and rosemary. Thick mouthfeel.  

Finish:  Long, slow, wooded. Oak and sherry/European oak influence intermingle with gentle peat and earth. There?s maltiness present, but it?s been covered up by oak tannins and cask-inherited flavours.

Packaging/Design:  Black bottles seem to be in vogue, but they have the same issue they always have?you can?t see the fill level, so you can?t easily tell when you?re running low. I don?t love them. Personally I?ve not been a fan of Highland Park?s branding in the past, so this one doesn?t speak to me. It stands out on a shelf, I guess, which was probably the intent.  

Conclusion:  The Edrington rep told me this was between 13-14 years old on average, but of course there?s no way to verify that, so I?d take it with a Glencairn of salt. It definitely tastes mature enough, doesn?t seem like they?re throwing oodles of 3- year-old whisky into the vatting or anything, but I still enjoy a good age statement on my dram. They?re not necessary, just? appreciated. Regardless this is a decent dram for the price if you like your whisky to taste more like sherry and oak than like barley malt. A decent addition to the range.  

83/100.  

?

The Famous Grouse (Blended Scotch Whisky, 40% ABV, NAS)  

Price:  $31 CAD  

Tasted:  At an Edrington Group table at a tasting.  

Colour:  Amber -2  

Nose:  Sweet and sherried, very Edrington. That said, there?s little else going on.  

Palate:  Sweet, corn whisky, malt notes, floral honey, simple but nice. Exactly what I imagine when I imagine an inexpensive blend. Would be nice on ice or in a cocktail.  

Finish:  Saccharine and oaky, but overall fleeting and short. But it?s an inexpensive blend?it?s not meant to stick around long.  

Packaging/Design:  It has a bird on it! I like birds, so I like that. Nothing else about it appeals to me though.  

Conclusion:  It?s a cheap blend that tastes like a cheap blend. Not bad at all, but hardly something to sip neat and savour.  The Edrington rep told me that the response to the newer packaging has overall been negative, so they?ll be returning to the older packaging style soon. So? look forward to that I suppose.

73/100.

?

Famous Grouse Smoky Black (Blended Scotch Whisky, 40% ABV, NAS)  

Price:  $38 CAD  

Tasted:  At an Edrington table at a tasting.  

Colour:  Amber +1  

Nose:  Gentle peat that seems more Ileach than Orcadian, honey, fudge.  

Palate:  Gentle, sweet, smooth, but smoky nonetheless. Almonds and sultanas. Does what it says on the tin.  

Finish:  Medium length, sweet and oaky.  

Packaging/Design:  I liked the Black Grouse packaging (the li?l bird looked so proud on it) but the new Smoky Black one is? less appealing.  

Conclusion:  It?s like the Famous Grouse with the addition of some peated whisky and a bit more European oak or sherry-cask influence. I like it more, but not because of the smoke, it just seems a bit more well-rounded. I hope they change the packaging back on this one, too.  

77/100.  

?

Cutty Sark Prohibition (Blended Scotch Whisky, 50% ABV, NCF, NAS)  

Price:  $43 CAD  

Tasted:  At an Edrington Group table at a tasting.  

Colour:  Amber +1  

Nose:  Ethanol. Oranges, salt, malt, salt water taffy. This needs water, the addition of which reveals almonds, oak tannins, vanilla & hazelnut.  

Palate:  Macallan presence hits you immediately with sherry and oranges, malt, a bit of smoke, loads of oak. Pretzels, salt water taffy and honey.  

Finish:  Sweet, bit of corn influence, kind of a cross between a decent bourbon and a mid-range single malt. Very spiced.  

Packaging/Design:  The bottle is u-g-l-y. I strongly dislike it. Also it?s black again, which means it?s hard to see how much is left in it. That said, the bottle feels quite sturdy in the hands?it would be difficult to drop it by accident.  

Conclusion:  The Edrington rep told me that on average the blend is around 7 years old, that it?s non-chill-filtered and relies heavily upon Macallan and Glenrothes for its malt components. He said it has a lot more malt than the average Cutty Sark, but I can?t say I?ve tried it. Do I believe the 7-year age claim? Somewhat, but as with any blend that number is never going to be accurate for long. I did like this blend?it?s too hot, but with a bit of water it?s drinkable neat, and it isn?t bad. Maybe not great for someone accustomed to single malts, but for those making the transition from blend-to-malt, or someone who wants something they can drink on ice or in a cocktail but still taste that malty component?? This would fit the bill.  

80/100.

?

The Macallan Rare Cask (Single Malt, Speyside, 43% ABV, NAS)  

Price:  $460 CAD  

Tasted:  At an Edrington Group table at a tasting.  

Colour:  Amber +2  

Nose:  Honey and sweet Seville oranges, salted hazelnuts, sherry influence abounds?Oloroso influence with nuts and pralines, Fino with saltiness and a bit of a briney/salt watery note.  

Palate:  Salty, sweet, waxy mouthfeel. Honeyed and floral, strong (but not overbearing) oak tannins. With time red wine influence shows, and this gets grapey and jammy.  

Finish:  Amazing floral bouquet, spiced and balanced. Oak shows but it?s not too tannic and is well in balance and harmony with the rest of the dram. Medium length.  

Packaging/Design:  The whole bloody bottle looks like some sort of peregrine falcon to me. It?s like the proudest bird was filled with whisky and told to stand on a shelf. It?s almost? cocky. Like, the bottle thinks very highly of itself, which is pretty much what I?d expect from The Macallan. If the whisky were darker in colour it would look like the Maltese Falcon, actually.  

Conclusion:  Great single malt for a casual drinker, fits right in-line with intro-level Macallan offerings. But it?s FOUR HUNDRED-AND-SIXTY DOLLARS. That?s just silly. It has no age statement, but the Edrington rep said it was around 25 years old on average. (Take that with an Edrington-owned-bodega-sourced ex-sherry cask of salt.) If I got a bottle as a gift I?d just be upset that I didn?t get 3-4 bottles of something else instead, unless it was bought at Macallan Gold/Amber prices. But it?s not bad whisky, just unsavoury marketing.  

83/100.  

?

Kilchoman Sanaig (Single Malt, Islay, 46% ABV, Natural Colour, NCF, NAS)

Price:  $0 (Not available in this market yet.)  

Tasted:  At a tasting event at a table that had a few Amrut offerings and some other spirits. I only got to try the Sanaig, as the event was ending by the time I got to the table. :/  

Colour:  Amber +2  

Nose:  Lovely sweet smoky barley, peat, salt, and Terry?s chocolate orange. Classic Kilchoman profile, and it has oak for days.  

Palate:  Sweet, spiced, chalky and lovely. Peat smoke crossed with cotton candy. Salt for days, peanuts, peanut oil popcorn, lavender, sandal wood and dark chocolate.  

Finish: Very long, aromatic, plenty of sherry cask influence on this one. Sweet and smoky, salt water taffy, salted caramel, sweet oak and smoke. I?d gladly have another glass if I wasn?t being shuffled out of the hotel.  

Packaging/Design:  Lovely sturdy bottle, and a purple box! I love purple, I love Kilchoman?s packaging? I just don?t love their corks. They never fit well once the bottle has been opened in my experience. :/  

Conclusion:  Lovely dram, my first experience with sherry-influence in Kilchoman, so I?m happy to have tried it. Unfortunately, I?m sure the bottle will hold an utterly ridiculous price tag ?round these parts, as the only Kilchoman available in this market is Machir Bay and it usually sells out rather quickly in the liquor stores around here.  

86/100.



Thank ye kindly. I've only had one bottle of Kilchoman myself (Coull Point), and the cork was just... horribly wrong. It didn't fit in snugly if put in one way, and if put in another it was too snug.  

I've poured from a bottle of Machir Bay (though I haven't had the chance to try it, paradoxically) and the cork wasn't as bad, but a tad too snug. Maybe I just have bad luck. :S



Review 53: Kilchoman Sanaig 

WhiskyNetworkReview: #68 |  r/bourbon: #12 | r/scotch: #53 | r/worldwhisky: #3 | ? 84

Kilchoman Sanaig | OB | 2014 Version |  NAS | 50% Sherry  and 50% Bourbon (BT) Casks | 46 % | 55? in Germany |  NCA & NCF    

Hi there Scotchit! So, I'm still too limited in my sensory perception to review anything beside cough medicine (quite Laphroaigy actually...) and hence I can post some more of my review backlog...the Sanaig is the one Kilchoman expression I never really could get into, right from the start there was not much love between the two of us. Even though I felt quite lucky when I got my bottle as it was originally a rather limited release for France and wasn't meant to hit a bigger market. But...anyway, it should be a somewhat sweeter release and hence is a vatting of 50% Bourbon and 50% Sherry casks. There is no official age statement on the bottle, not even on the side of the box!, but the Bourbon casks in the vatting are said to be between four and five years old. At least that's what whisky.de states and Peter and James told the same thing during the last tasting tour. As I never really cared for this expression, I never really checked those numbers but have no big reason to disbelieve them. 

Situation: I had the Sanaig at different situations and from different bottles, with surprisingly similar results each time...these notes are a summary of my different tasting notes with no special situation in mind. Even on the Tasting Tour in the company of James and Peter I didn't really felt for this one...

Nose: floral, cooked or canned fruits, dust, grapes, (medium sweet) sherry, camp fire, caramel, very earthy like wet dark sand caught in moss, hints of milk chocolate in the back and a bit soapy        

Palate: neutral to sweet entry, a bit watery, somewhat middle sweetish (I know, sorry), prominent sherry notes (more medium sweet then Olorosso), hayish, sweet peat, sharp clear smoke, hints of dry dark mocha, earthy    

Finish: leathery, clean smoke, pepper shows up late in the finish, vanilla and caramel show the Bourbon Cask influence    

Like I said, I really don't care much about it. Many people love it though and it is still is a non colored, non chillfiltered, 46% Islay dram so it could not really be ?not good? it's just not as good as many of the other choices...hence:    

Score: B-  so 82/100    

Quick-Info on the scores: I made some adjustments to my scores/scoring as I wasn't 100% happy with it. I'll update earlier reviews and the archive. I went to an A/B/C style with different levels, I'll try to add some drams I consider representative for the score. These ratings only represent my feelings about the dram. It's neither logical nor fair but so is live...

Related drams: Loch Gorm  | Vintage 2008 |  Machir Bay | Port Cask | 100% Islay + CS | Bourbon Cask | Sherry Cask



Kilchoman Sanaig / 46% / $60

Tasted with a bit of filtered Tokyo tap water

This is a new NAS lineup from Kilchoman to stock alongside their Machir Bay release.  The main highlight is that there is a mixed bourbon/Oloroso sherry maturation.

Well put-together, nice sherry influence ontop of the bourbon giving it a bit more sweetness, and I appreciate the extra ABV.  Personally, I don't find this to be a standout, but it's good.

Rating: 80/100

122nd /r/scotch review



Sanaig is aged in a combination of oloroso-sherry and bourbon casks.  Non chill filtered and natural color.  Bottled at 46% ABV.

Nose: Cherries, peat, strawberries, vanilla.  Orange marmalade as well.

Palate: Medium body with a very light oiliness.  Strawberries, cherries, oranges.  Some dried tropical fruit.  Earthiness as well.  And then a strong taste of peanut butter.  This is just fascinating on the palate.  Layers and layers of flavors.  Some mushroom and umami notes.  And that smoke tracing its way through all of it in the background.

Finish: Medium length.  Longer than Loch Gorm though.  A nice medicinal peat, rather reminicent of the finish on a Laphroaig, but better.  Peanuts.  Some savory beef jerky as well.  I really like the finish on this.

Score: 90/100

This really surprised me.  After trying the Loch Gorm and finding it good but not great, I was expecting less from this bottle.  But wow, I'm very impressed.  Layers of flavors.  Wonderful texture.  And balanced so well.  I need a bottle of this.

?

Older Kilchoman reviews:



Kilchoman Sanaig Review

Thanks /u/J4ni for yet another Kilchoman sample to try, it has been good fun going through a number of Kilchoman releases that I would never have been able to try. 

Nose: Smoky, hay, earthy, raisins, wood, sherry and it reminds me a little of BBQ

Palate: Earthy, sweet, little bit of smoke. Thin mouthfeel. Sherry notes make themselves know, some dark chocolate, lemon, salt, pepper and plums. 

Finish: Medium in length. Some salt, ashy, earthy, sweet, the smoke you expect in most 46% Kilchoman releases. Warms up on the tail end. 

Score: 84

Overall: Palate is the strongest part of this dram.  A good dram, but falls a little shy of the cask strength releases. Personally Loch Gorm and Machir Bay win out slightly over this. Gave my wife some of this, she said it reminded her of ?abandoned, dusty rooms?. 



Hey, let's stay on Islay. It's Easter, or like I use to say: http://imgur.com/a/RVhKq. 

Kilchoman Coull Point

Islay, 46%

Limited travel retail release. Matured in Bourbon barrels, finished in Oloroso Sherry butts, non chill-filtered. Thanks /u/TOModera for the sample.

color: straw (natural color)

nose: cold cigarette smoke on an old leather jacket, pistachios, tar, burnt saussage, white wine

taste: cold ash, lemon cake, hint of oak, chlorophyll mint, sugared water, gingerbread

finish: medium

Dirty and stinky nose. Kinda artificial on the palate. Not very distinctive finish. Typical mediocre travel retail whisky?

75/100

Kilchoman Sanaig

Islay, 46%

Non chill-filtered, matured in Bourbon and Sherry casks.

color: light gold (natural color)

nose: damp smoke, vanilla, black pepper, machine room, marzipan

taste: ash, pineapple, hint of dark chocolate, coco, peat smoke, hint of passion fruit, vanilla

finish: vanilla, ashy smoke, black pepper

Prominent vanilla on the nose. Like a smoky Pina Colada on the palate. Lingering finish. Pretty exotic, more like Kilchoman Sunjay...

83/100



Another Kilchoman from the awesome swap I did with /u/j4ni 

This one is a vatting of 50% Bourbon and 50% Oloroso casks. An interesting combination as the Sherry and Bourbon cask Kilchomans on their own are very good. Anyways, I'm tired, it's cold, need me some peat.

Aged 3 years*, 46%ABV, NCA, NCF

*for lack of age statement

Nose: Quite young on the nose, even a few new makey hints. Herbal peat, but subdued somewhat. Really sweet tangerines. Woody vanilla. Fennel. Some burned sugar. 

Palate: Big farmy note, straw, earth, manure (in a good way), grass, etc. Some pepper. Wood smoke (like from a meat smoker before the meat goes in). Grapes. Juicy citrus. Salt. Lemon drops. 

Finish: Long. Quite salty. Cough Syrup. Mineral peat. Woody smoke. Some stewed fruit.

The nose put me off a little, but the palate on this made up for it. I really love that farmy note on some of the young Islays (young Laphroaigs have it too).



Aged 3 years

It's funny, with Kilchoman, this could very well be true. :-)



And it can still be good to boot.

This tastes around 6-8 yo though.



Hello again all,

Since I?m a bastard who wants to keep you all in the dark as long as possible about the Port Charlotte, Octomore, Bruichladdich amazingness, I decided to put up the Kilchoman?s today. But I promise on my liver, the Bruichladdich?s are next.

Antony Will?s (The Founder) was on the table and it was great to have a (quick) chat with someone who is obviously so passionate about everything Kilchoman.

Onto the whiskies:

?

Kilchoman Sanaig 46%

Colour: Gold

Body: Full

Nose: Quite big spicy and oaky notes, liquorice, some meaty Sherry, raisin, Kilchoman smoke.

Taste: Soft arrival, then BAM!, meaty Sherry, big mineral Kilchoman smoke, very mineral actually with these rocky notes.

Finish: Long length. Mineral, more malty, smoke.

Much more Sherry cask involvement with this one, but less than Loch Gorm. It?s quite muscular and aggressive but good stuff.

74/100

?

Kilchoman Sauternes Matured 2011 50%

Colour: Gold

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Similar to the Madeira edition from last year. Very sweet with fresh fruit, a bit unbalanced on the sweet side though.

Taste: Sweetness from the off, peat coming through, mineral notes with white wine sweetness.

Finish: Long length. Mineral with lots of fresh fruit.

75/100

?

Kilchoman Loch Gorm 2016 Ed. 46%

Colour: Light Amber

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: A bakery that uses peat (wut?), lots of rising dough, pastry smells, cinnamon.

Taste: Cinnamon, peat smoke comes through big with lovely fruity notes.

Finish: Medium/Long length. Great.

You?ll remember I reviewed a different edition before but never found out the year/batch. This is completely different. While that was sulphury and rubbery this is a great fruity/peat combo.

82/100

?

Kilchoman Original Cask Strength 2016 Ed. 56.9%

Colour: Gold

Body: Full

Nose: Lovely. Fruit, peat, sweetness, very fruity with a great balance. Malty with water.

Taste: AMAZING stuff. Lovely fresh fruit, big peat and mineral notes. Amazing with water too, lovely citrus notes come out.

Finish: Long length. A very mineral finish, but great.

This is wonderful and gives a clue at how Kilchoman will taste at an older age I think as it was fully matured in quarter casks for 6 years.

85/100

?

The Original Cask Strength really takes the hat here. It?s great and pretty reasonably priced (around ?70). I would be tempted to buy one if I wasn?t on such a huge Ledaig spree at the moment.

Thanks for reading!

Reviews #196-#199



Network Average: 75.2

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent