Review #76 - Kilchoman Madeira Cask Matured

Thanks to u/xile_ for this sample! I've been intrigued by Kilchoman for some time now as they're known for "in your face" whiskies. I've also acquired an appreciation for ex-Madeira casks after buying a bottle of the 2016 Cairdeas (matured in ex-Madeira casks).

This was distilled in 2011 and bottled in 2015.  Comprising 17 casks that were matured for about 4 years, this is both natural colour and NCF.

?

Rested 10 minutes ? Copita with a bit of water

?

Region: Islay 

Abv: 50% 

Colour: Manuka Honey

?

Nose: Salted plum, fresh leather, plum wine, light acetone, wine gummies. Faintest hint of smoke. Moss and heather, a single smouldering stick, lemon zest.

Taste: Peppercorn sauce mixed with homemade cranberry sauce,extremely dark chocolate, preserved wage feel, Plum. heavy salt. salted hazelnut spread, almond batter. Coconut milk.

Finish: Burnt plastic, burnt vanilla bean, stewed ginger, medicinal, sea spray. Burnt hazelnuts, bit of roasted chestnuts. Red rice with coconut milk (asian dessert).

Conclusion: I really liked this. It didn't blow me away but it's a nice showcase of what Kilchoman and maturation in Madeira can do. I'm not a huge fan of all the salt but the nut influence was really nice. 

Score

84/100



In the picture, my dram is the white king, and my my my it looks like Black is in an awkward spot. He's just played h6, though, and it looks like he may be able to tuck the king out of harm's way... White to move, how can you keep the advantage in this position?

Kilchoman Madeira Cask Matured, 50% ABV  

I'm biased towards Kilchoman. Love their story, love their philosophy, love the quality of their distillate, love their youth and pluck. Not crazy about the prices, especially here in the U.S., but no one's perfect...

Nose: Fruity peat, straw, pine, slate

Taste: Mmm so juicy. Strawberry jam, ashy peat, mulled wine with cinnamon. It's funny, I want to say "juicy" and "dry" at the same time, though it seems those words sort of contradict each other. Kinda musty/earthy too. But also Coca-Cola brightness/fizziness? Maybe coconut in there too? I feel like my notes here are all over the place. 

Finish: Medium. Salty and ashy.

Interesting, that's for sure. I was expecting this to be a clear winner over my nearest point of comparison, the Laphroaig Cairdeas 2016, but actually they're neck and neck. Guess that means you don't have to hunt this rarity down! Get the Cairdeas instead.

88/100



How about Be6. Black is forced to take it and white recaptures with Qe6+. Kh7 h5... 

Edit ...Qf6?



r/scotch turned into r/chess

About the review, I only had an Arran Madeira finished whisky and loved the creamy/fruitiness about it.  But this spent the whole time in a Madeira-cask so I guess the influence of the cask is more prominent.



What about bishop to e6. If their bishop takes it then you take that and would have the king on the run with only h7 or h5 which are surely check mates?

I am really inexperienced at this so maybe I am missing an out. 



First things first, thanks to /u/jleese for the drams. I haven't had a Kilchoman I've not really really enjoyed, but I have avoided Machir bay. I adore the Port Cask, and have heard nothing but good things about the 100% Islay. I'm interested to see if there's any differences between the batches. 

Kilchoman Madeira Cask 58.4%

Matured wholly in Madeira casks, something like three years old. NCF. CS. Starting with this as it is the non-100% Islay one. 

Very peaty and strong. Very young smelling, and quite hot

Nice balance of sweet and savoury. Some fruit, but less wine influence than I'd like. I think I was really looking for the fruits here, and tasting blind I'd think it was a bourbon cask.

A bit underwhelming in all honesty. Very, very good, but not a patch on the port cask. Some nice sweet wine, but I want more. 89/100

Kilchoman 100% Inaugural 50%

Healthy ABV but not CS. NCF and Non-coloured. Matured for three years in Buffalo Trace barrels. The first of their well respected and incredibly popular 100% Islay range- thus called because EVERYTHING COMES FROM ISLAY. 

Really very delicious smelling. Aromatic, with fruits and smoky herbs. Lovely. 

Complex and delicious. So many fruits and flowers, with fizzy spice and lemons.

Lovely! I really liked this a lot. Deliciously woody fruits, with sweetness and aromatic spices. Very powerful elderflower and apples. A sterling first effort with this expression 

93/100

Kilchoman 100% Islay Fourth Edition 50%

A vatting of 40 first fill bourbon barrels. NCF, non-coloured. Between 4 and 5 years old. 

Clean, crisp, smokey and complex. It's a kilchoman alright.

Once had a smoked old fashioned where the barman did cinnamon in a handheld smoker. Very similar, with slightly less oak notes and more fire. Crisp spiteful peat is the house style of kilchoman 

Excellent, not as nice as the younger inaugural. I don't know why this is. 

90/100

Well I'm loving these comparsion reviews at the moment. Most notable from this was that I was able to really get to grips with what the Kilchoman house style is- really crisp, clean maritime peat. All of these were good, but the inaugural was a real cut above. 

Thanks for reading! 



I fucking LOVE this shit!!. Both Kichoman and your reviews 

Interesting-ish, (was at one of their tastings last week) the 100% Islay isn't just all from Islay, they do everything themselves. The farm grows the barley, they malt it in their own maltings and use peat dug from their farm. In all the other releases they use malt from Port Ellen and if you compare the 100% islay to the original cask strength (similar age/strength/barrels) you can compare the difference which is pretty cool.

That reminds me, I really need to get some of the original cask strength... and maybe the 100% islay



Half.. Didn't realise the difference was that big.

And I'm thinking full bottles.



Cheers man, love getting feedback like this after a longer write-up.

I genuinely did not know that about the 100% Islay, that's really great. I would like to visit Kilchoman at some point. 



Review 54+55: Kilchoman Club Bottling III Madeira Cask + Kilchoman Madeira Cask 

Hi there Scotchit! Even though I brought some High West expressions with me to the seminar, I'm still not confident in my taste senses today, so instead of posting a new review from this seminar, I'll be working on the review backlog. So after I posted my least liked Kilchoman yesterday and some Sherry reviews the day before, let's combine the best of these two worlds and look at another fortified wine and two (indeed, two!) Kilchomen matured in its casks. Beside Oloroso Sherry, Port, Fino Sherry matured expressions, there is also a Pedro Xim?nez (PX) finished expression, which I'll come to probably this weekend and these two bottlings which are matured in casks which formerly held Madeira. Mawhat? You may ask, and rightly so. Madeira is a fortified Portuguese wine produced in, you already guessed it, Madeira! There are different styles of Madeira which I'm not going to cover here, so you might want to look that up if you want to know more. Sadly, Kilchoman never stated what kind of Madeira they used for their expressions. The Madeira I'm reviewing below is Vinhos Justino Henriques' Fine Medium Dry Madeira. The grapes used are mostly Negra Mole but also some Complexa and Triunfo. It's medium dry, it's "the old reserve" so 10 years old and has an abv of 19%. Here are my thoughts:     

Nose: love it! Pretty similar to a semi dry Sherry but also very different. Fruity, tart but also sweet. Raisins, citrus, walnuts and a bit dusty. Also something like a burned raisins note I also found in the Oloroso, and hints of fresh dough or maybe my mind is playing tricks on me and adding smells I associate with some great whiskies I had, who had similar notes...?    

Palate: Pretty in line with the nose, though it's less sweet: citrusy and tart grapes but also sweet raisins, cranberries, walnuts and burned and/or fermented note, a bit bitter,     

Finish: here the fermented note gets stronger and more present, medium dry (great observation Sherlock, really great...), quite short at the width but it stays longer at the side and the back palate...  

If I had to rate it, I would give this a pretty solid B   

Now things get interesting! Meet the whisky! We have the Kilchoman Madeira Cask Matured as well as the Kilchoman Club Release Third Edition (2014), which is also Madeira cask matured. 
The Madeira Cask was bottled and released in 2015 and was a vatting of 17 first fill ex-Madeira Casks, filled in 2011, which resulted in 6000 bottles of 50% abv.
And in walks the biggest Mexican I have ever seen, or well, another Madeira matured Kilchoman. This is the third Club Release, which was released in 2014 for members of the Kilchoman Club. If I recall correctly it's a vatting of two (or was it three?) first fill Madeira Casks which were filled in February 2010 and bottled at cask strength in 2014, resulting in 600 bottles of 58,4% abv. If you are lucky enough to own a bottle with which you are willing to part with or still know a place where you can get this, please let me know. I know a place which sells it for 300? which is a bit more then I would like to spend right now...

WhiskyNetworkReview: #69 |  r/bourbon: #12 | r/scotch: #54 | r/worldwhisky: #3 | ? 84

Kilchoman Club Release III | OB | dest. 11th February 2010 | bottled 24th November 2014 | First Fill Madeira Casks | 58,4% % | 300? at specialist shop |  NCA & NCF    

Situation: Enjoying it side by side with the above and below, from a sample I got from /u/jleese ? Thanks again ? please send more! On the sofa listening to the Boss.

Nose: Madeira but with a little less of the tart notes, old leather furniture, chocolate, sugary sweetness, salty sea air, a bit numbed as is typical of the high strength, peat, malt, there's also some bacon behind this, buttered popcorn, the more air it gets, the better it gets

Palate: I actually nosed this one first, then nosed the Madeira Cask and drank the Madeira Cask first, so maybe you want to read on there? No? Ok, here it comes: sweet but not as voluminous and pompous as the Madeira Cask, very nice balance of pepper and velvet on the mouthfeel, honey, peat, salty abv bites, Madeira (see above but without the tart aspects), chocolate, clear smoke above it, a very, very felicitous combination of the Kilchoman spirit and the Madeira cask. Stunning.

Finish: I love it. Chocolate, salt, pepper, Madeira sweetness shines through, long and slowly degrading, peat, slightly drying at the sides of the tongue

Like I said, if you know a place that sells this below 300? or see an auction where this is on the list, please let me know. If you have a bottle, send me some more! This is the best dram I had so far. Blew me completely away. Incredible stuff. Actually, wait! No, no it wasn't that good. Go ahead and send me that link...ach who am I kidding? Mindblowing stuff. The best so far. Loved every aspect of every drop. I'd go for the full 100 if they had managed to include the tartness of the Madeira as well...still

Score: A+ so 98/100 

WhiskyNetworkReview: #70 |  r/bourbon: #12 | r/scotch: #55 | r/worldwhisky: #3 | ? 84

Kilchoman Madeira Cask Matured | OB | 2015 |  4 | 17 first fill Madeira Casks | 50% | 150? ish at Auctions |  NCA & NCF    

Situation: The first time I had this expression at the 2015 Tasting tour before the expression was officially released, the notes below are from that day and a sample I got from /u/catfurnace ? Thanks again!, which I enjoyed side by side with the above on the sofa listening to the Boss.

Nose: Different! Something like plums first, well plums don't really describe it well, maybe more like pickled plums with sugar but without the alcohol smell?, and a dominant green grape tartness, sugar, flowery, leather, doesn't share much with the Vinhos Justino Henriques', also there's a herbal spice note somewhere between dust, dill and mustard, distant smoke,

Palate: voluminous sweet entry, oily mouthfeel, sweet Madeira with light peppery spices, (hints of) chocolate, dark plums, peat, malty, earthy (dirt), dark caramel, light clear smoke floating above all    

Finish: After an initially strong/intense finish it degrades quickly. A sweet burned dark rotten note which does not stay that long, salty, a tad bit drying at the end.    

The combination is nice, this is quite a bit wobbly and unclear though, somehow not very well defined and a bit too ?wish-washy?. Still good, but not as good as expected.    

Score: B  so 86/100      

Before the nose, I was sure that these two expressions would be very, very similar and my suggestion was that I wouldn't care much for the Club Bottling as I didn't really fell for the Madeira Cask. After the nose, I was a) convinced these were indeed quite different (with some similarities though) and b) sold on the Club bottling. That really blew me away, if you ever have the chance pull the trigger ? if you don't like it, no worries I'll take it. Seriously, gimme!

Quick-Info on the scores: I made some adjustments to my scores/scoring as I wasn't 100% happy with it. I'll update earlier reviews and the archive. I went to an A/B/C style with different levels, I'll try to add some drams I consider representative for the score. These ratings only represent my feelings about the dram. It's neither logical nor fair but so is live...

Related drams: Loch Gorm  | Vintage 2008 |  Machir Bay | Port Cask | 100% Islay + CS | Bourbon Cask | Sherry Cask



Greetings Scotchit! Tonight a review from my second favourite (Islay? Hmm...) distillery, Kilchoman. 

This was a special release last year that I considered pulling the trigger on, but the shipping would have been a killer so I held off. I'm still not sure if I regret that or not, but I got a sample from /u/jleese. Should I regret not buying this?

Let's find out!

Kilchoman Madeira Cask
Islay, 58.4% ABV, 4 years old, NCF, NCA, 02/2010-11/2014, 50ml sample from /u/jleese

Nose: Hot. Strong peat. Ashy. Fruit, orange zest. Earthy. Red fruits, berries. Coffee. Dark oak. Vulcanized rubber. Toffee.

Not completely distinguishable from a sherry maturation initially, slightly earthier with a bit of time.  

Taste: Interesting, not that hot. Earthy. Dark oak. Tannins. Coffee. Zesty. Orange peel. Peat, ashy. Red fruits, berry peel. Tire rubber. Toffee.

Very earthy here, the madeira has lead to a real dark oaky earthiness. It's on the drier side of malts, but not quite bitter. 

Finish: Dry, lengthy. Ashy peat. Earthy. Tannins. Dark oak. Dirt. Roasted coffee. Musty. Cardamom.

Dry, but very interesting. Lots of dark red wine notes.

Summary: I actually don't know all that much about Madeira - it's been ages since I tried any, but the finish on that is probably the most distinctly wine-like part of this malt. 

It's kind of like the 100% Islay, with an added dry sherry-style maturation. Not quite as good as the rubbery port of the Port Cask Maturation, but still very distinctive and very interesting. 

I'm not sure I need this in my life as much as the port cask, but I could definitely see myself not regretting this purchase. Outside of Kilchoman products, I guess the closest parallel would be Ardbeg Uigeadail, but it's so much earthier that it's a bad comparison.

Anyway, thank you for the sample /u/jleese! I'm not sure I would have got to try this from very many other people!

Score: 84/100
Very good.

Most Similar To: Kilchoman 100% Islay, Kilchoman Port Cask Matured, Ardbeg Uigeadail.

Buy Again? Can't, but even at auction I'll probably go after the PCM.



Distilled in 2011 and bottled in 2015, 17 casks were married after a ~4 year maturation in first fill ex-Madeira barrels to create a batch of 6,100 bottles of this Kilchoman Madeira Cask Matured.

Kilchoman Madeira Cask Matured 

(~4y, 50.0%, NCF, natural colour, peated, matured in first fill ex-Madeira barrels, 2015 limited edition - 6,100 bottles)

?

Nose: wine gums, vanilla bean, leather, plum, banana, candied fruits, light smoke

Taste: pepper, orange marmalade, more plums, caramel, walnut, dark chocolate, mild earthy notes, ginger

Finish: cough syrup, burnt sugar, stewed fruits, salt, rubber

?

Very rich and full bodied dram. Sweet, nutty and jammy with a little peppery heat, syrupy on entry, intense on the finish but fades quickly leaving behind a lingering burnt sweetness note with a little salt. This could be seen as a wonderful dessert scotch. The smoke, nuttiness and hints of salt keep the sweetness from becoming cloying.

My first Kilchoman, but definitely won't be my last. I?m impressed!

?

86/100



Thanks! First one... I have to say I'm very impressed for such a young distillery and young bottling. 

u/devoz gave me a sample of his birthday single cask bourbon Kilchoman and a sherry cask... I'm definitely looking forward to see more of what this distillery is about.



Don't worry about it. You pay for quality. Quality can come from any number of things?aging, cask selection, distillation methods, peating, yada yada. From what I can tell about Kilchoman's operation, you're paying for quality distillation methods.

(...that is, if you want to justify the expense. Really, all luxury goods like this are priced based on demand, rather than production costs.)



Yea got back late Sunday!

Nice - have any others ready to go?



Nice! Tartan hunting? haha

How does it feel to have tartan now?



Not really. More just me getting into the habit of writing down my notes for stuff that speaks to me. Sharing is caring!

It feels... like I'm older. Could be due to my birthday instead though :P



hahah fair enough

think that might be more the getting older :P did you get any special bottle(s) for you birthday?



Review 52: Kilchoman Madeira 50% Review

Thanks /u/xile_ for the sample, working my way through the pile of Kilchoman samples I have from swaps. Only a few more to go. 

Nose: Sweet, floral, peaches, seaside beach, fruity. The sweet, light fruity notes dominate the smoke and saltiness. 

Palate: Fruity, tangy, some peat and smoke. Some black pepper/spice that transitions from the sweetness. Little bit of saltiness, earthy. White wine. Dark chocolate. 

Finish: Medium to long in length. Salt, dark chocolate and dried apricots.  Sweet, transitions to dry and the end. Smoke becomes more prominent as the sweetness and fruits fade. 

Score: 86

Overall: Not bad, first fill casks maturation always makes things interesting. The Madeira casks stood up to the smokiness and salt that is traditionally found in Kilchoman. Tastes older than 4 years, which is a trend for Kilchoman bottles. I imagine this would have had some really interesting notes at cask strength. 



I have not been posting reviews of all of them, but kilchoman coull point and Kilchoman Sanaig are my only two left. 

I've got a new Kilchoman SC just shy of 5 years finished in PX cask arriving next week in case you are interested in trying the new Canadian store pick. 



Yeah, a little more punch would have helped it greatly. The wine cask had a surprising amount of influence here, makes me want to try some more wine cask matured kilchoman, maybe the port one I need to hunt down. 

I am looking forward to your thoughts on the sample of Sauternes CS Kilchoman. But I imagine your sample backlog is a little large at the moment. 



Huge thanks to /u/MonsieurZaccone for the sample!

Kilchoman makes some great whiskey considering how young it is ? I?m a huge fan of their single casks and willingness to try different finishes like this Madeira. But? it?s not cheap. Their standard lineup is pretty solid from what I?ve tried, but the special releases start at around $100 and that?s a bit of a ballbreaker. The Port finish was pretty solid (I gave it an 84), but I can?t say it?s great value. The single cask PX bottlings are pretty darn tasty, and (at least for now), they?re easy to find. But still? not cheap. So let?s see how the Madeira does:

?

Kilchoman Madeira Cask Matured ? 55%

?

Scoring legend:



Interesting notes, quite different from mine. I found a lot of grape skin and must out of this and didn't enjoy it much. I felt the Madiera overpowered. 

Love seeing contrasting reviews like this :)



Big  thanks to /u/j4ni for the sample. 

I still haven't tried any Madeira wine, but I've been discovering that it does some interesting stuff to whisky and tends to change its profile quite drastically. This is a special Kilchoman release. Kilchoman is a newish distillery on Islay that has been putting out some amazing stuff and I'm looking very forward to visiting them in July. Now lets see what Madeira does to this.

Aged 4 years, 50%ABV, Matured in 1st Fill Maderia Casks, NCA, NCF

Nose: Quite a light, mineral peat. Definitely some young spirit notes, oatmeal or porridge with a good helping of brown sugar and cinnamon. Lemon (fruit not zest). Winey notes, grape bubble gum, grappa. Overripe apples. 

Palate: A moment of mellow fruit and then a very aggressive, young mineral peat and salt hits, along with more cinnamon, very distinctively cinnamon, loads of it. And then a little more mellow fruits, this vineyard peach liqueur I had in the Rhineland, lemon. 

Finish: Long. Ash. Dry wood. Cinnamon (almost like fireball). Some grape bubblegum on the end. 

Well this is quite different from the regular creamy peat and farmyard notes I usually find in Kilchoman. It's age shows but it still has a decent amount of complexity to it. Very heavy on the cinnamon. A quirky and unique dram.



Well, hello again everyone!

Today we have a look at a small distillery I love to love. They really seem to be focussed on what matters (the whisky) and not on how much whisky they can fire into space.

On my trip I bought 2 bottles of Kilchoman: Kilchoman Madeira and the 10th Anniversary. I've also got a sample of Master of Malt's 2008 Single Cask, so we'll throw that in to compare. I like to compare. (Cough) For research purposes of course.

Let's do the Madeira first since it should be a little softer and less peaty.

This was fully matured in first fill Madeira Barrels from 2011 to 2015. Only 4 years old but it's taken on a wonderful colour. Release of 6100 bottles.

Kilchoman 2011 Madeira 50%

Colour: Mahogany

Body: Full

Nose: Rich and fruity. Dark and nutty with dark chocolate, coffee, cashew nut, hazelnut, juicy fruit- Blackberry, blueberry, blackcurrant, some citrus fruit- Lemon and lime slices, perfume, Turkish delight, mocha. A little of the sea, sweet powerful smoke in the background making it all a bit more complex, incense smoke.
A little green leafiness developing, some putty.

Water: Much more fruity! Darker. More Madeira, more coffee, more chocolate, less smoke. Blackberry juice, blueberry, toffee, fudge, fig, strong English tea, stewed fruit, saffron spice. Then even more fruity again with Lemoncello, more blackberry and blueberry juice. Some brown sugar.

Taste: A light citrus and stewed fruit arrival, then gradual building big peat smoke with lots of ashy fruit, lots and lots of cola bottles, blueberry, blackberry, blackcurrant, some citrus in there too- Lemon mostly, kiln, soot, coals. A little putty and burnt plastic (not unpleasant) into the finish.

Water: Fruitier arrival, then much more dark fruitiness, almost Port-like with rich blueberries and blackberries, some nuttiness, Madeira covered chocolate, black coffee, some building ashiness with fresh ginger spice, then ash and soot into the finish. 

Finish: Medium/Long length. Ashy then juicy citrus and dark fruit- Blackberries staying. After a bit the classic dry smoke creeps back.

Notes: Distilled 2011, bottled 2015. 4 years old, Madeira full maturation. Like peaty blackcurrant juice.

83/100

Delicious stuff! It's almost too sweet! And I love 'em sweet. It might be that the smoke isn't really balanced with the sweetness. There is smoke. There is sweetness. But they're almost separate from each other... Make sense? No? Let's keep going....

Onto the 10th Anniversary bottling. 
This was released as a limited run of 3000 bottles that you can only buy from the distillery. Released at Feis Ile this year to celebrate their 10th anniversary (duh). It contains various vintages from Bourbon barrels and Sherry casks. Includes barrels from 2005-2012, including some whisky from Cask No.1. Is it a millilitre? Is it a bottle's worth? Is this just a whisky to collect? Let's find out!

Kilchoman 10th Anniversary Edition 58.2%

Colour: Gold

Body: Full

Nose: Quite rich and complex. Sweet, spicy, fruity, smoky, mineral and green notes. Quite creamy, a little popcorn maltiness, vanilla pod, green oak, lemon and lime citrus, peach and apricot.
More Sherried and fruitily sweet after a bit.

Water: Softer, darker and less green. Soft lemon, chocolate, oak coming out with liquorice, a little dry with peated grist. Tobacco and some Sherried fruit developing after a bit. 

Taste: Sharp arrival, lovely lemon zest and peel, then stony lemon juice with peat smoke developing and mingling with it. I wouldn't it's say complex but it's integrated and powerful.

Water: Softer arrival, fruity at first then cold sea water. Oak developing with Sherry fruit, liquorice and some oakiness, a little tannic and much more drying, then powerful smoke really kicks up with the stony lemon juice coming back. More bitter and tannic after a bit.

Finish: Long length. A peaty puff, then lasting lemon citrus and mineral smoke. With water- More sherried and oaky with tannins, coffee and chocolate.

Notes: The Sherry is coming out more with each glass.

81/100

A great whisky, don't get me wrong, but not quite hitting all the right notes. Again, I think it could have been better.

And a last one, let's make it an indie. How 'bout this single cask from 2008 bottled by Master of Malt as part of their Single Cask range? It was matured in a 1st fill Bourbon barrel from 2008 to 2013. 5 years old. Should be pretty comparable to the 10th Anniversary  but without the Sherry.

Kilchoman 2008 Master of Malt Single Cask 59.6%

Colour: White Wine

Body: Full

Nose: Much drier with less fruit than the 10th, more peat. Dense peat, medicinal edge- some TCP, a malty note- Popcorn, sweet vanilla, cooling note- cold sea water? and liquorice root. Quite dry.

Water: More dry, dry driftwood, dry white wine. More malty with more popcorn, a bit of biscuit, a little seaweed. More TCP too. A little fruitiness appearing after a bit.

Taste: Creamy, big malty sweetness then powerful peat creeping in and building and building- burning heather and tobacco, kiln, ginger and white pepper spice. Liquorice and cold sea water into the finish.

Water: Fruitier arrival going very dry. Bone dry white wine, white grape, a little vanilla. Some dry spice- dry ginger. Very dry with lots of oak into the finish.

Finish: Long length. Burnt tobacco and smouldering peat embers. With water- It's much drier, dry oak.

Notes: Very dry. Doesn't have the fruitiness of the others but it's more powerful.

80/100

Personally I prefer the Madeira, but they're all really good.

TL;DR: Madeira= Blackcurrant juice. 10th= Older Sherried Kilchoman. 2008 MoM= Dry white wine.

Thanks for reading guys and gals!

Up next: A Bruichladdich to blow your mind!



Whisky Network Average: 78.9

Scoring:

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Exquisite



Which will put it at probably $80+ here in the states. :(

Not so bad, since i love kilchoman, just wish the pound and dollar were more aligned.