Hello Scotchit! Today i'm reviewing Kilchoman Port Cask. The sample is from a swap with /u/jleese. Prior to this i've only had one kilchoman expression, the Machir Bay. I really liked that one. The Kilchoman Port Cask has been ridiculously hyped up on this sub. Let's see if it is deserving of all this hype. On to the review. Slainte!    

Kilchoman Port Cask
55% ABV, e150a, NCF, 50 ml sample         

Colour: I don't normally comment on colour, but today I do. The colour is a deep red copper. It looks absolutely incredible!

Nose Heavy peat smoke. Waves of sea salt. Lightly roasted coffee beans. Melted butter. Dough. Crisp new oak. White pepper. Chocolate. Dry cacao. Red licorice. Light tobacco.
Big and bold, with incredible complexity. Absolutely incredible! One of the 5 best things I've ever nosed.

Palate Big oily mouth feel. Full blown peat. Light coffee. Indistinguishable dark red fruits. White pepper. Sea salt. Charred bread. Oak. Light ash. Toast with melted butter.
Still big and bold. The mouth feel is so incredibly oily. Absolutely fantastic. 

Finish Long and oily. Medium roasted coffee. Vegetal/earthy peat. Slightly charred bread .Bitter chocolate.
Fantastic finish.

HOLY SHIT! This is certainly a whisky deserving of it's hype! The port cask has definitely had a huge influence. The port notes blend perfectly with the signature Kilchoman notes. 

Overall, 95/100  

Buy again? YES!

Abort the Kilchoman hype train, This is actually shitsky, I have just been fucking with you, it's definitely not worth your money. 



I picked up one of them, not knowing what it was, for my fiancee's birthday.  We both loved it so obviously I went to get more, crying ensued.

Fun fact,  last I checked, there's 3 bottles at one store in Illinois, but they don't ship out of the state.  Anyone willing to make a trip for me?



Review dump Day 4.. THE DUMPENING. Review 13-19

Glencadam 12 Year Old Portwood Finish

Arran Port Cask Finish

Talisker Port Ruige

This grows on you the more you try it? 

Balvenie 21 Year Old PortWood Finish

Would be nicer if it wasn?t so watered down.

Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban 12 Year Old

Awesome sauce!

BenRiach 15 Year Old (Tawny Port Cask Finish)

Not so well balanced, or subtle. Takes your breath away at first but gets better.

Kilchoman Port Cask Matured

Delicious, but nothing on the 100% Islay.



I didn't say I didn't like it :-P

Can imagine that the NCF is very expensive, the 21 is insane as it is. 



Wasn't that bad. I got a bottle for ?120.

All gone now. 



Is that BenRiach 15 the Solstice 2nd Edition?

Where does Laphroaig Cairdeas 2013 Portwood score for you?



Pictured: Three cask strength first fill whiskies from bourbon, port and sherry, mmm.

This was a great tasting, which I wasn?t expecting as I?d tried most of the whiskies before so I wasn?t prepared to be enthralled by George, but I was! Lots of great stories, the beginning of the distillery, the burning down of the floor maltings, bad casks they made into flower pots, their plans for future releases.. and a fantastic set of whiskies.

This was put on by my local whisky club, their write up can be found here. 

Original Cask Strength

A vatting of 55 (unsure)? 5 year old, first fill bourbon casks from buffalo trace (probably used for blantons)

Port Cask 59%

Before the 55% official release they took some cask samples and put them in bottles. George found this under his dads desk and brought it a long. Official releasae was a 3ish year old vating of 3 (if I remember right) ruby port casks.. This will be a sample from one of those casks.

(Full disclosure, I wasn?t a massive fan of the official release, and this is the same. Good not great)

Oloroso Sherry Single Cask 2009  59.2%

Single cask #422 (if I can read my notes)?. This is probably going to be a released in the Belgium market when they do a load of single cask releases.

Overall experience. This was great. THE best tasting I?ve been to and i?ve been to a fair few at this point. Whisky scores may be higher due to the lovliness of the George who let us finish the bottles off. But I do love Kilchoman, maybe even more now!

One last thing I remembered. They REALLY Care about casks. They only buy first fill now, shipped whole so the staves don?t dry out.



Yeah.. I hear that. I've marked all emails from the kichoman mailing list as priority because their one offs sell out so quickly!. From what they said, they do a lot of single sherry casks for specific markets/retailer. So the one I reviewed will be in Belgium. But at a similar time there will be one soley for the whisky exchange.. And I don't think they'll broadcast that on their mailing list.. it'll be on the whisky exchanges. 

They don't make it easy!



Kilchoman Port Cask 3 Year ? 55%, $99

Nose: Smoked berry pie, butter, raspberry.

Taste: Sweet berries, dirt, earthy peat, vanilla, berry and cream, smoothly creamy, slightly herbal. There is a strength and intensity that shows how young this really is. 

Finish: The earthy peat stays a while, while the berry swirls in and out carrying a sweet vanilla wood. Short-Medium Length

Notes: This was my first real taste of Kilchomen, much better than the samples I?ve had before. I look forward to what age will do to the notes and the price for later expressions of Kilchomen.

86/100



/u/mattatoe sent me two samples from Kilchoman surprisingly recently  Not sure what inspired me to pull these two from the box for some pre super bowl reviewing, but that happened.  Getting ready to watch the game in a few hours, but the house is quiet while the younger kids nap so let's do this!

Kilchoman Port Cask Matured

Initial Impressions: it's bloody pink, like rare steak. 

Nose: peat sans-smoke. Cherry pie filling. Smoke reminiscent of Lagavulin is starting to appear slightly now as it's been in the glass 15 min. 

Taste: fairly spicy with cinnamon and red pepper - this is, I think, the 55% ABV showing. Some peat smoke notes, some oak, and some sour (not tart, sour) fruit like cherry or cranberry. Barely a hint of actual port until after swallowing 4-5 times, but now every sip has a sweeter port wine flavor above the peat smoke. 

Finish: port influence is most pronounced here in the aftertaste. A decent burn, then nice sweet red fruits (fruitcake!) to close this out.

I really was fascinated with the number of flavor shifts this one had. Usually I notice a single major shift as the dram opens up, but this one had two or three. Makes me wish my sample was larger than 1 oz. Also males me wonder about my accuracy. But I am out of scotch and can't go back now! A-

Score: 90/100

Side note: I'm not even going to pretend to apologize that I am developing a cluster of whiskies scored 90/100 and another cluster at 80/100. Would I buy it again? Not possible, but yes, I would. Anybody wanna sample swap?

Kilchoman Single Bourbon Barrel

Nose: weak, but reminiscent of Ardbeg 10 or Laphroaig with peat, iodine, and sea salt. Faint smoke. Ink and charcoal. Earthiness, maybe a hint of savory meat and bread. I keep thinking I smell sweetness as in fruit or honey, but as soon as I try to focus on that note it's gone and cannot be found again 

Taste: initial entry is sweet with honey, before the alcohol hits hard! I am not exactly sure about the ABV on this, need to ask /u/mattatoe. Green grapes, white wine, fresh grains, and malt. Later the peat is out to play. Really quite sweet and not at all what I expected after nosing it.

Finish: minimal burn for how high the proof is... unless I misunderstand the bottle I've got a sample from. Still, a few months ago I am sure I'd have found the burn to be scalding. Peat smoke and grape/apples/white wine dance in the sweet aftertaste.

I like this. 

Score: 93/100

Would I buy it again? Depends on the price.  Google seems to find a lot of different bottlings for a scotch that matches this title, so I am a bit confused.  If this were a $100 bottle available locally, I can imagine I'd have it around once a year or so.  I have another similarly named sample from /u/kurt_vonnegunt which he has listed as "Kilchoman Single Bourbon Cask"  If you guys could both weigh in on where you got the bottles, that would be great.

Final Conclusions

I liked these two whiskies nearly as well as each other.  I really liked the sweetness of the bourbon barrel, so in sheer enjoyment I'd say it was one point above the port. There are two reasons I can see for the distance between the two scores.  Firstly, the port finish seems more like a "gimmick" to me, while the bourbon finish seems more like it's shaping up to be a standard offering.  The bourbon I'd drink frequently; the port is fun for when I am in a certain mood. Not an infrequent mood, but a mood nonetheless.  

The second possibility is that I am more generous with scoring after I've got half a dram down.  We'll test/eliminate this possibility when I get to the sample from /u/kurt_vonnegunt, assuming it's a brother and not a distant cousin.



Firstly, the port finish seems more like a "gimmick" to me, while the bourbon finish seems more like it's shaping up to be a standard offering.

I'm sure we're just mincing words here, but neither of these are 'finished', both are fully matured instead in the respective casks. I'm wondering what makes you think of the Port one as a 'gimmick' however? It's a unique offering that I hope they do more of. Rumour was the next port cask will be 4-5 years away.



it struck me as something a young distillery would initially with their younger whisky that wouldn't continue in the future I guess.

Let's hope not! Anthony Wills has experimented quite a bit in finding what casks react best with his spirit, and port sits very nicely which isn't easy to do. They also tried a sauternes, a cissac, and a few other wine casks to see which one fit best, but the port came out on top.

It's a young spirit and will likely remain young as that's where it works. The finished product isn't ready at a certain age, it's ready at a certain maturity. There seems to be a lot of incorrect chatter around the web about it being 2015 and people are "really looking forward to finally trying their 10yr expression". I have no idea where this is all coming from as there won't be one. Sure they might release a special edition or single cask 10yr, but it won't be anywhere near their core range nor audience of whisky nerds. They have no intention of releasing older Kilchoman as it works really fucking well at the current maturity; just like we didn't see an 8yo release 2 years ago, I'm really doubtful we'll see a 10yo this year. Just like the Octomore 10yo that came out that was a major MAJOR let down, their spirit also works really well at 4-7 years old.

Sorry just had to get that off my chest.



Sorry just had to get that off my chest.

No problem. Glad to have provided the platform. I see that not only do you know much more than I do about Kilchoman, but also you have some serious passion!

Yes, I believe I was thinking in terms of a ten year bottling coming up. What you say makes sense.



Saw you mentioned you'd get the port cask but couldn't. Some bottles popped up in the States at retail recently and a quick winesearcher  search turned up a couple that may still have it (most are in non ship states but a few looked like they may have it available fwiw). 

Nice reviews - I have a bottle of the port cask en route and am looking forward to trying it!



If this were a $100 bottle available locally, I can imagine I'd have it around once a year or so. I have another similarly named sample from /u/kurt_vonnegunt which he has listed as "Kilchoman Single Bourbon Cask" If you guys could both weigh in on where you got the bottles, that would be great.

That particular release is done and dusted afaik. (The one in the red box).
They have now got a cask strength bourbon matured release (Olive-green box), but it's not single cask.



http://i.imgur.com/raYkBjn.jpg

Hello, sorry for delay. This is my bottle that I found at my favorite honey hole. They often get weird single barrels from the distributors when people don't buy the entire barrel or allocation. Agreed on the score and notes. I also prefer this to the port finished Kilchoman (pitchforks!!!). I think the extra age and sweetness make this my fave pour of the young Islay segment of the scotch world.



Sample from /u/toadpooh that he surprised me with.  Bottled at 55% ABV.

Nose: Nice smoke and port.  Maybe a bit more peat smoke on the nose than the BenRiach Solstice.  Vanilla, cinnamon, dark fruits.

Palate: Really nice big oiliness to this.  Very peaty.  Strawberries, plums, and other dark fruits.  Big and complex.

Finish: Long, long, long.  The port slowly gives way to the peat and it leaves a wonderful ash in my mouth.  A bit of cocoa maybe as well.

Score: 94/100

Wow!  After the BenRiach Solstice the other night, I thought this couldn't possibly be as good, but I like it even more.  Denser and peatier than the BenRiach.  Fantastic stuff, wish I could buy more!



If you are interested, I have a line on a bottle of Kilcho Port and also the Benriach Solstice 17. 

PM me if you are interested (sooner than later as I am on the hunt starting tomorrow - Fri/Sat)



Kilchoman Port Cask Matured

(55%, matured in ex-ruby port casks, 2011-2014, 6000 bottles)

?

Thanks to u/Devoz for this sample (but no thanks for adding another to the running list of temptations now)! 

?

Nose: Damp leaves, earth, plums, raspberries, blueberries, cinnamon, oak

Taste: Strawberries, earth, oak, lemon, plum, dark chocolate, cinnamon, black pepper

Finish: Tobacco, nutmeg, toasted oak, ginseng

?

Interesting reversal on the nose from typical port drams? the damp earthy notes seem prominent here, with the fruit and spice from the port influence as the supporting cast in the background. A little bit of musty oak develops at the back end. In the mouth, the earth is perfectly balanced with the fruits now (each with equal weighting). Big notes of strawberries out of season (not as sweet), with that signature Kilchoman earthiness and a bit of citrus and spice for good measure. Earthy and slightly bitter oak on the finish, with the fading note reminding me a herbal ginseng drink.

Though the port influence is unquestionably there in this dram, it?s just as impressive to me that the Kilchoman core spirit stubbornly shines through and refuses to be tamed. The two sides seemingly fight it out throughout the nose and taste, with the core spirit ultimately winning in the end (but taking you on a fun ride throughout). Damn tasty stuff and I wish I could still find a bottle of the stuff.

?

88/100



Thanks to /u/I_SAID_NO_GOLDFISH for the sample. I was able to get a bottle of the Kilchoman Port a little while back, but finding a sample was like pulling teeth until this gent came along. I really enjoyed the PX SiC at a bar a short while back, and been looking to try more from this distillery as I go.

?

Kilchoman Port Cask Matured ? 55%

?

I had high hopes for the Kilchoman Port, but sadly the pour did not quite live up to them. Not saying it?s bad ? quite the contrary ? just that I had very high expectations after having really enjoyed the Kilchoman SiC?s and being spoiled by Longrow?s RED Fresh Port. The flavors in the RED are better-integrated, with a good balance of fruit and peat created by the maturation in fresh port casks. The Kilchoman, on the other hand, barely allows the port notes to come through at all, and remains very peat-forward.



port finished Octomore

I suspect something like this is already maturing in their warehouses. I hope we'll see it released some day!



I've heard some really good things about the Benni Solstice, need to see if I got a sample from finedrams...

As for smoky BBQ - try one of the x.2 Octomores finished in red wine casks... Yum.



How dare you!

I kid, but for me this one doesn't do much. It's "just" a Kilchoman. On the other hand, the Kilchoman SiC PX and Longrow RED integrate their red wine flavors much better. They are a melding of the casks and spirit while the Kilcho Port is just that - Kilchoman with a slight twist.

Now that I'm done beating it up, let me say that I still enjoyed the pour, just not as much as I was hoping to ;)



I got strong fruits in the nose, but I agree that the smoke is huge.  I wonder, how long has the bottle been open, and was it protected from oxidation?  That could be a reason.

In the palate, though, I do agree that very little fruit comes out, when you drink it neat as you did.  But just add enough water, so it's around 51%-- you'll get a bigger burst of red fruits without losing much of the rest.



Hi Scotchit! So: A man walks into a bar, orders five whiskies, and quickly drinks them all.

Bartender: "Whoa man, that's a lot of whisky, everything ok?"

Man: "First blowjob today."

Bartender: "Well, congrats! Know what? Have another one, it's on me."

Man: "No thanks, if the first five didn't get the taste out of my mouth, I doubt the sixth helps..."

Kilchoman Port Cask Matured

Islay, 55%

Distilled in 2011. Fully matured in ex-Ruby Port casks. Bottled in 2014. Non chill-filtered.

Thanks /u/jleese for the sample.

color: copper with a pink tint (natural color)

nose: bonfire smoke, plums, beetroot, blackcurrants, blood oranges, sweet licorice, tar

taste: ash, sweet and sour, cinnamon, strawberry marmalade, yellow plums, tar

finish: licorice, woodland strawberries, ash, blackcurrants, rose hip

Smoky fruit bomb. Well balanced. I'm not a fan of ashy notes, but in combination with these dark fruit notes... Dayum!

93/100



For a minute I thought it said Kikkoman Port Cask matured and wondered why a soy sauce company was making scotch.

Great review though!



I considered doing a series, however it's that really busy time of year, so it's probably better off if I just ham-fist all of these together.

Yay Pig Hands!

Anyway, Kilchoman is the baby of Islay, beginning production in June 2005. It's also the first distillery to be built on the island, 124 years ago.

Understandably, a lot of us have trouble getting our hands on different parts of it. Also, due to the youth, it's a mixed bag. I'm not completely missing from this either.

Recently a pair of people asked me to rank my Islay Distilleries, and I honestly believed that Kilchoman was near the top, due to my love of the Bourbon Cask. However when I actually did the math, I found out it's lower down, mostly due to Machir Bay getting a "low-ish" score.

Also it turns out I love Port Ellen and Ardbeg. A lot.

So I thought I'd fix that up. Today we have 4 new Kilchoman reviews, and 1 re-review, to help beef up my Kilchoman scores.

Let's see how the Childish Old Timer does.

But first, a thanks to /u/Lord-of-the-manor for the samples of Kilchoman 100% Islay and Kilchoman Loch Gorm, thanks to /u/jleese for the Kilchoman Port Cask Matured, thanks to the city of Cardiff for having one redeeming thing about it, which was carrying the Kilchoman Bourbon Cask, and thanks to my friend from the UK who brought me back the Kilchoman - Batch 1 (That Boutique-y Whisky Company) sample.

So up first we have Kilchoman 100% Islay - 3rd Edition. So, the question on everyone's lips: What am I doing with my life, what's the meaning to it all, and why do I keep screwing up?

Wait... while that may be what everyone is thinking, it's not one I'll be answering today. Well, maybe I will, but not in the preamble.

Why is this dram special? Well, all of the barley for the 100% Islay series is grown, malted, distilled, and bottled at the distillery. Originally this was the plan for all of their Scotch, however that wasn't viable.

Instead, they release a special edition of what they are doing. So this is the 3rd edition. Let's see if I'll be kicking myself for not buying the 1st edition when I had the chance (yet not really the money).

Damn, what AM I doing with my life? Answer: Taking some courses, some trips, enjoying whisky, writing in my down time, and generally having fun and challenging myself.

But that's neither here nor there, so let's move onto why you're reading this.

Region: Islay

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 50%

Colour: Sunflower oil

Nose: Peat, pear, anise, sunflowers, nutmeg, bacon, cinnamon, lemon rind

Starts off quite light, then starts ramping up. There quite a bit of spice in the nose. Man, I miss drinking Islays when I go on other kicks. I really like the subtle lemon that eventually develops.

What is the meaning to it all? Fuck it, have fun, leave the place better than you showed up, and be excellent to one another.

Taste: Lemon candy, canned pears, pepper, anise, cranberry

I can't really tease out too many flavours, however each one is distinct in it's own way (Like Canada).

It's not overly complex, however the different flavours certainly pop and mesh well.

Finish: Mushroom, pine, peat, calamari, grapefruit, raspberry

Earthy? Yup. Very earthy? Yes, very much so. Do I have trouble explaining that meaty taste in the finish? You bet your sweet patoot I do. That's why I think it's calamari.

Again, nothing too complex, and some of the fruit is hard to find buried 6 feet under that much dirt.

Conclusion: You screw up because you try. You learn from it, you get the fuck up, and you keep going. Welcome to the human race.

Ahem, onto the conclusion of the dram /u/TOModera, leave it over at /r/GetMotivated.

Anyway, this dram has a nice nose, a nice taste, and a nice finish. None of them are overtly complex, yet the flavours are distinct (save for the fruit in the finish), they taste great, and I would probably have this on hand to sip.

Better than the Machir Bay, continuing on the nice flavours presented in it.

79/100

Call me /u/TOModera.

We all have our white whales. Yes, I said whales. Because it's whisky, not a giant marine mammal that has grown freakishly large and has a pigment mutation. Seriously people, you're going to have lots of whales.

Some of them won't be whisky.

Anyway, as I was saying, we all have white whales. Like Moby Dick. Yeah, the book.

One of mine, oddly enough, wasn't even that rare. It was Kilchoman Loch Gorm. Why this dram? Well, because I had attempted to swap for it multiple times.

The first time, the swapper wasn't able to complete the trade.

The second time, I ran out of bottles and had to cancel.

The third time, they weren't able to ship to Canada.

The fourth time I made the trade, however it started in the Central US and then went to Miami, and then to Canada.

I think it's fair to call this one of my White Whales.

So last week, for the first time, I had the chance to sit down and finally try the dram that I had hunted for, bought a ship named Pequod, lived in Nantucket, and shared a bed with a tattooed bloke named Queequeg. None of that helped me review the dram, oddly enough.

Kilchoman Loch Gorm is fully matured in Oloroso Sherry butts for 5 years, and named after a peaty loch near the distillery.

Let's see if I ended up at sea with nothing to show for it.

Region: Islay

Price:$148.95 (CAD) at the LCBO

Abv: 46%

Colour: Light Brown

Nose: Black cherry, flowers, licorice, sea salt, lemonade, bacon, current, dates

Not as bully and full of peat as Kilchoman's other drams, this has more of the sherry influence in the start. However the overt peat notes slowly come up, and eventually take over most of the nose, leaving only some dark fruit notes to linger.

Yeah, I gotta harpoon a bottle of this dram for the nose alone.

Taste: Nutmeg, ginger, cinnamon, sour cherry, spicy beef, mineral water, smoke

Very, very spicy. Like, proper Xmas spicy, or a really good pumpkin pie spicy, or going down on a woman in Fall spicy, but only if she has Uggs and really likes Starbucks.

There's also a mineral note, and eventually a smoky note. The age is showing here a tad, as the flavours are rolling around a lot.

Finish: Peat, peach, raspberry, mushroom, apricot, Moroccan spices, fake banana, orange rind, vanilla

Moderate finish, longer than the 100% Islay or the Machir Bay. There's a lot of fruit, yet the typical earthy Kilchoman finish is evident here.

To be serious, I'm glad they used Oloroso on this dram rather than a more earthy sherry, as the earthier sherry finish would have ruined this finish. Love the apricot and spices, tastes like a nice Tangine.

Conclusion: Overall a nice dram. It hits well above it's age and Abv, has a nice nose, great taste, and fun, unique finish. I could have gone for a little more complexity, and eventually the sherry on the nose disappears into the fog.

I think you can do a lot worse than this one, and I want a bottle after having this dram.

And maybe sell the boat I bought... what was I thinking?

83/100

A feature? From a distillery? What is this, something we can all count on?

Up front, I'm going to tell you my bias: I love Port Finishes. Too much. Take any time of whisky, through it in a port finish, and it will probably get a lot higher mark from me.

I really should be drinking port, it would seem.

So when I say I'm excited to try Kilchoman Port Cask Matured, know that it's because I'm biased as fuck.

This young special edition release was limited to 6000 bottles. It's fully matured in ex Ruby Port casks for 3 years. Yeah, that's right, this was distilled in 2011 and aged for only 3 years.

I don't know.... I've had 33 year old whisky in port. And Mid Winter Nights Dram.... is this going to be a dud?

As an aside, Ruby Port, for those of you interested, is a Portuguese fortified wine produced exclusively in the Douro Valley, in the North of Portugal. It's become somewhat of a style of wine, made elsewhere, but like Scotch, Bourbon, Ice Wine, and Champagne, the real Ruby Port needs to come from the DV.

Fancy.

Region: Islay

Price: N/A in the LCBO

Abv: 55%

Colour: Dark Chestnut

Nose: Raspberry, anise, sour red wine, smoke, plums, sea salt, lemon

Tons of red fruit, red wine, and smoke. Not to mention the ever present anise monster that is typical in Kilchoman so far.

Wait, this was 3 years old? Holy shit, this is a pretty well developed, though somewhat sour nose for a 3 year old.

Oh crap, now that I wrote that, I'm on a list somewhere.

Taste: Peppery, red licorice, hot, blackberry, lemon peel, strawberry, plum, sitting at a winery eating strawberries and pepper with a nice Baco Noir.

Right at the end it sets off my memory of sitting down at a winery on Canada Day, enjoying red wine, strawberries, and pepper. And no, it wasn't the 80s, I'm not that old.

Amazing taste. Also very hot. Probably because of the youth.

Not getting off that list anytime soon.

Finish: Cranberry, peat, ginger, nutmeg, cumin, cassia buds, cayenne pepper

Big, long finish. Just massive finish, smacking you about the face. Strong flavours, more complex than the Loch Gorm, and really hot as well.

Conclusion: Damn Kilchoman Port Cask Matured, you fine. You very fine.

Honestly, amazing for a 3 year dram. It's soaked up the port flavours, added the blast of peat and heat I love from Kilchoman, and overall been amazing. Granted, I'm biased as fuck.

86/100



Speaking of White Whales, here's one from a few years ago.

I search all over the UK for this one. London was having Logistic issues receiving Islays. Scotland was sold out of it. And then I went to Wales.

Ever been to Cardiff? Well, as Whovians, my wife and I had to go. I mean, it's where Doctor Who and Torchwood takes place (for the good seasons)!

Well, let me tell you about Cardiff: It's not the jewel of Wales. It's more like the Windsor of Wales. Nice enough place, though there's some rough spots. And we may have been the victims of some casual racism at a pub named after their greatest hero. Not to mention there seemed to be a general poop and scoop disconnect among the populace. That second part, specifically.

None the less, I'll always remember Cardiff as the place that actually had Kilchoman Single Bourbon Cask 5 year old, the single cask bottle I had tried in Edinburgh, and hunted for the entire trip. 

So, I loved it there, but was that just because I was tired from walking up a mountain and happy to be in Scotland? We'll see. This is a re-review, however there are some mitigating circumstances:

This isn't the same bottle. This is my bottle. I reviewed Kilderkin House's bottle before.

I'm not on vacation, I'm actually pretty busy at work, and US Thanksgiving (while a nice vacation for Americans) is pure stress for people in the Marketing Research Industry.

This is the last dram of the bottle. I've done my best to avoid oxidization, even changing it to a smaller bottle, however it has oxidized since I first had it.

Let's see how it stands up.

Region: Islay

Price: N/A in Ontario

Cask Number: 244/2008

Bottle Number: 63/252

Cask Type: Bourbon

Distillation Date: 22.5.2008

Bottle Date: 2.4.2013

Abv: 59.6%

Colour: Light Yellow

Nose: Peat, vanilla, lemon, gingersnap cookies, smoked pork, tobacco

The spice isn't as forward as it was in the last bottle. The BBQ notes (smoked pork), the pear has gone a little more acidic, and it's less sweet than before.

Still, I love this nose.

Taste: Gingerale, lemon, nutmeg, grassy, mushroom, anise, tannic, bacon

No earthworm taste this time, which is odd. I remember the Machir Bay having that taste as well, though the meaty, gummy, and earthy notes aren't as complete in this bottle.

Less fruit as well. I'm guessing it's lost some of that due to age.

Finish: Spritey, pine, mushroom, Swedish berries, pepper, lemongrass, peat, dark chocolate, ham

Very similar finish as before. Again, the meat isn't as forward, though it's still there. And it's long, sugary, and wonderful finish.

Conclusion: Before I gave this a 90, and I think some of that was because it was a higher Abv, the bottle was freshly opened, and I was on vacation. And excited. And maybe a tad drunk. And maybe in the middle of a bender in the UK (Next April, fingers crossed!).

Anyway, I still think this is an amazing dram. It has notes that you'd swear could only come from a wine cask, or specifically a sherry cask. The vanilla is amazing, the spice is great, and the juice is that signature young Kilchoman excellence.

87/100

And finally we come to something I ordered because... well, who doesn't want to try a Kilchoman IB?

A little about That Boutique-y Whisky Company. It sounds like such a throw away line, yet they serve a purpose in the Scotch Ecosystem. They take miniscule parcels of forgotten stock or lost casks, all NAS, and then bottle them.

Does this always create something good? No, what are you kidding? It's basically random vulture grabbing. And at least it's NAS because it has to be.

Kilchoman Batch 1 (That Boutique-y Whisky Company) is the first Batch, from Kilchoman to this company that they've been able to grab up. It's covered in Science, because Kilchoman grows 30% of the grain used in their drams (save for the 100% Islay, which is all of it). They've been figuring out the right types of grain that survive.

Wish OUR distilleries would take that much pride in their work...

There's 272 bottles of this one, so let's see if it's as good as Jimbo Murray said it was.

Region: Islay

Price: N/A in Ontario (I know, I'm surprised too)

Abv: 55.5%

Colour: Sunflower yellow

Nose: Soft bacon, strawberry, fresh pastry, lemon zest, vanilla, smoke gingerbread

By soft bacon, I mean it's not a punched up, huge bacon note, more so a light, "eating at a waffle house" bacon note.

Sweet, and somewhat different than regular Kilchoman, it has notes that remind me of the Bourbon Cask. Very nice.

Taste: Brown sugar, vanilla, smoke, pear, oak, anise

Very sweet. Almost like a Rum. Or a Rum Cask Whisky. Or almost a Caramel. Much strong. Wow.

Also this bottling really shows off the anise after it sits for awhile. That note is pretty consistent for Kilchoman, however here it's up front, banging on the door.

Finish: Peat, chocolate, raspberry, cinnamon, ginger, apple

Big chocolate-y, spicy finish. Not complex enough to make something out of it (Like a Mexican Hot Chocolate or a Spice Cake), however just enough to keep me interested.

Conclusion: This is a pretty nice dram. I'd go so far to say it's the poor mans Bourbon Cask. Given that the Bourbon cask is sold out, I'd even say this is a good replacement.

Heck, I'd even go so far to say Buy this over the 100% Islay 3rd edition. Both are nice, yet the additional Abv, and (I suspect) time in an Ex-bourbon barrel really makes this one a contender.

82/100

Scotch reviews #208-212, Islay reviews #53-57, Whisky network reviews #309-313

Other Kilchoman reviews:

Kilchoman Machir Bay

Kilchoman Single Bourbon Cask 5 year old



Current whisky network average score = 79.28

Standard Deviation = 8.12

Skewness = -2.01487

Kurtosis = 6.80762



Cardiff... The least attractive capital city in the UK. Give me a shout next time you're in London, we'll get a drink. 

I'm getting a Boutique-y Benrinnes for christmas... hope that's good. 



Here's hoping man, that'd be awesome, I'll hit you up if I can swing it.

I'll have to look up the Boutique-y Benrinnes... Oddly, that's my next multireview (in February).



I've only had the Machir Bay so far and I really like it. Looks like the 100% Islay 2014 will be available here soon so I'll probably pick that up.

Nice reviews!