Lagavulin 1997 Distillers Edition mis-titled
A quick story about this bottle before we get into the review. I'm out of town right now (2 weeks ago) visiting a friend down in San Diego, CA working on a side project outside of my normal day job. My friend knows I'm into whisky and he wants a recommendation what to buy his friend who's birthday is tomorrow. He tells me his friend enjoys Crown Royal Black and wants my recommendation on a good whisky. So we head over to BevMo and I start going over the selection and eventually settle on Glenfarclas 12 for the friend. He then asks for a recommendation on a bottle of whisky to buy for his house to serve to guests that come over who might enjoy whisky and I recommend Highland Park 12 there. I spot a few bottles of Macallan CS and instantly start mulling over if I can afford to buy another bottle to add to my stock. Of course I can! (not really) So I end up getting a bottle with Texacer's words echoing in my head. 

So we've got our bottles in hand and my friend says "Which bottle out of every thing here would you like to try?" After mulling over between a Mortlach 15 Gordon and McPhail, a Linkwood 15 G&M I spot a Lagavulin Distillers Edition 1997 and tell him I've been really pining to try it. He agrees and picks up the bottle for us to try and I'm over the moon excited. I had him watch the Highland Park tasting video on YouTube and we did a mini tasting. First Highland Park 12 and then Lagavulin Distillers. Great conversation and great whisky with a good friend! Cheers!

On to the review!

Lagavulin Distillers Edition 1997 Islay Single Malt - ABV 43%

Enjoyed Neat (apologies for camera phone)

Color: Amber +2 

Nose: Crisp Peat with underlying sherry and fruit, brine and pungent smoke, weathered soft oak.

Taste: Sweet roasted pineapple, luscious fruit, vanilla ice cream, caramel oak with underlying savory ocean peatiness

Finish: Sweet funnel cakes, swiss chocolate, silky, savory, smokey sherry and very long finish on par with what you expect from a Lagavulin single malt

Summary
Yum! I am thoroughly enjoying the distillers edition. I hastily assumed that it wouldn't be a full flavored whisky at 43% but somehow this stuff brings the flavor and complexity that I love in the 12 year old. Very impressed with the sherry finish on this too, sherry finished peated whisky is divine. Imagine Lagavulin 16 with a touch of sherry for added complexity.

Score  

92/100
Review #68



mulling over between a Mortlach 15 Gordon and McPhail

You dodged a bullet, that G&M mortlach 15 is terrible, reeks of sulphur and ignited fireworks.



Lagavulin 1997 Distillers Edition

Sample, PX cask finish - Bottled 2013

Islay, 43% ABV

Nose: BBQ, peat, ocean brine, sherry, raisins, strawberries, dark fruit, sweet tea. Like hanging out by the pool on a summer day

Palate: Lots of salt - really a surprising amount, ocean brine, peat, creamy malt (malty cream?), sherry, chocolate, smoked meat, raisins, loads of dark fruit, sweet red wine

Finish: Lingering, salt, meat, smoke, sherry, chocolate

92/100. This is interesting - damn good and certainly unique. Main impression is the extreme ocean saltiness that fades into the sweeter, fruitier notes. Probably the saltiest whisky I've had initially. But that does indeed fade and the PX casks shine through with the raisins, sherry and sweet wine notes. Very Lagavulin with the peat and the complexity and yet strikes a balance with the sweet and savory. Top marks.



I really liked this one. I recently had a 2014 sample that couldn't touch this one.

I also remember not being able to decide whether I liked this, or the standard 16 better. This one was fruitier, the standard had more pepper/leathery notes from what I remember. I really enjoyed both, though.



Benromach 10, 43%

Nose: apricot, raisin, just a little salt, chocolate chips (why this came to mind and not just "chocolate" I have no idea but I'll just be faithful to my brain's first impulse), brown sugar

Taste: Dry sherry coats the back of the mouth. This has a nice mouthfeel, creamy. Maybe just a little bit of smoke? 

Finish: Decidedly bitter, woody. Lasting but one-dimensional. 

The nose is the winner here, for sure. Of late, this has been favorably compared to Highland Park 12 by many. I don't agree. It's enjoyable but in a plain-jane unmemorable sort of way. I mean, I'd be pretty hard-pressed to pick it out in a blind tasting of similarly-priced Speysides. That's not a bad thing per se, of course, but for me, I'm looking for more character. 82/100

Springbank 12 CS, 50.3%

Nose: Wow, surprisingly similar to Laddie 10! Funky, briny, a bit of cocoa, sweat.

Taste: Mmm, cinnamon spice, honey, vanilla bean, maple syrup... despite all the sweet notes, this is not overwhelmingly sweet. Complex, with the aforementioned flavors pinballing around the mouth, surfacing and submerging.

Finish: Toffee... shortish, but great balance between sweet, smoky and bitter. It's the kind of finish that really pulls you back in for another taste. 

This is pretty outstanding. Would buy again. I've never had a Springbank before, but based on this I'm surprised the distillery doesn't have a higher profile. I'm very interested in trying more expressions. 90/100

Lagavulin Distiller's Edition bottled 2013, 43%

Nose: Gentle smoke, honey, menthol.

Taste: Coffee, sweet sherry, bell pepper? Kinda watery mouthfeel.

Finish: This is where the smoke shows up, a nice wood fireplace aftertaste.

Eh, it's pleasant enough... I bought this even after reading a lot of mediocre reviews because I love the Talisker Distiller's Edition so much -- and because it costs $65 at my local shop! At that price it manages to be a decent buy, but at the much higher prices I usually see it for, it's a definite pass. It's just a little weak, a little uninspired. I am still a sucker for that basic Lagavulin character but I don't think I'd buy this again. Pretty bottle, though! 84/100

Caol Ila 12, 43%

Nose: Of the peaty Islays, this seems closest to Laphroaig. Peat, more mossy than earthy. Bright, salty, a tiny hint of orange. A medicinal note appears only after I've taken the first sip.  

Taste: Clean, bright, vegetal peat. This is simple in a good way, stands up and presents peat without being an assault on the senses. Tastes sweeter as I continue to sip, honeysuckle perhaps? That one drop of easy sweetness plus the vegetal taste you get with honeysuckle actually does seem an apt comparison here. Mouthfeel a bit watery.

Finish: I'm not getting much new on the finish. Peaty, sweet, a little citrusy. I dig it. 

I can see why this would be a cornerstone of some blends: it's straightforward yet gentle peat without amping up too much the medicinal or rubber or other potentially offputting notes of its sister malts. A little bit pedestrian, but what's wrong with taking a nice walk? 87/100



It definitely is pricy, but check around for online vendors because I've been able to find it for like $120 with shipping, as opposed to most shops which tend to be $150-180.

Ralfy reviewed Springbank 18 and said it was slow, long-form whisky.  I agree.  It's got a lot going on and the funkiness typical of Springbank is in full force despite the age.  Lovely flavors, nothing harsh on the nose, palate, or finish, and it's quite a unique whisky -- it sealed the deal on my love for Springbank.

If you like the 10 or 12 CS, I'd say go for it.



Review #139

Hello folks, finally getting around to reviewing this bottle that I got for the holidays. It looks like I?m the first person to review this years DE so I guess I?ll take the plunge! It?s about half gone so now that I?ve spent some time with it here?s what I?ve found:

Lagavulin Distillers Edition 1997/2013, 43% abv, Islay

Nose: Rum soaked raisins. Soft, earthy and medicinal peat. Sweet smoky oak, dry spicy sherry. Eucalyptus, wet asphalt, cocoa butter. Quite a bit of underlying herbal notes? stewed black tea leaves, rosemary, bruised parsley. 

Palate: Pretty thin, coating but not oily (Hard to describe). Ashy, full bodied oak, gentle peat, nice undulating waves of smoke but not overpowering. Flashes of grape juice from concentrate, sea spray, there?s a mineral layer mingling around in there? very much granite dust and flint. 

Finish: Bitter, metallic, touch of citric acid. Some of that PX comes back through, raspberry, dried grapes. Finish is medium in length, most of the notes fall away rather quickly but warmth and smokiness hangs around for a bit.

90/100

It?s tasty stuff, it?s incredibly overpriced, I don?t recommend you buy a full bottle. Same as last years DE, and the year before. Buy the 12 year if you need a Lagavulin in your life.



dat Laddie tho...

Right there with you on the clasps and chunky wood boxes.



Lagavulin Distiller's Edition / 43% ABV / 2013

Tasted neat

I've reviewed this once before, but here we have the 2013 edition, distilled in 1997.  It is batch 4 of 502, an enormous annual release of tens of thousands of bottles.  Sometime between 2011 and they updated the old black-bottle labels to a new creamy green.

This has been matured in PX (Pedro Ximenez) sherry casks for a second barrel maturation.

This is quite a pleasant, evening dram.  Great with a book.  It's a bit out of balanced--the sherry doesn't take as much as it should, as I find with all the sherried Lagavulins, but it does take something out of the pure spirit, muddying and diluting the Islay.

Rating: 82/100

101st review



Glenfiddich 15 

Colour: Dark, orange, metallic.  Colouring very possible.

Nose: Wow!  HEAVENLY.  Apples, clove, dark pears, grass, grapes, malt.

Palate: Smooth, sweet green apples (not sour!), raisins, wild blueberries, cinnamon, pine trees, pine nuts, spearmint.

Finish: Apple crumble, brown sugar, wood.

This is actually a mighty fine scotch. I prefer it to the 12 and the 18.  Aged in sherry, bourbon, and new oak, perhaps it's the Solera Vat (Oregon Pine) that gives it that extra something.  Dig a little with this dram and it's really something special.  At first taste, perhaps not too different from the 12, but pay attention and it's really nice.

The 40% abv works.

86/100

Laphroaig 13 Battlehill

Colour: Yellow

Nose: Smoke, Peat, Cream, Spices, Sweets

Palate: Very interesting and layered,  I find the spicy alcohol qualities to hit first and then give way to dessert-like sweeter qualities.  Peat and Smoke is there too.  Complex I believe is a fair statement.  Lovely leather and liquorice quality, almost something you could chew into.

Finish: Sweet, smoke, peat? vegetal, herbal, brown sugar? nice although less complex than the palate.

I've now tried 4 Laphroaig expressions and I like them all.  Perhaps this is the closest I will ever get to the standard 15 (discontinued right?).  I like it more than the 10, it shares some qualities with the younger Quarter Cask although it isn't as bold.  I like it a lot.  Less iodine/bandaid flavour than both the 10 and QC.  43% abv I believe.  Thanks to u/TOModera for the swap from a long time ago.

88/100

Lagavulin 2013 Distiller's Edition

Colour: Rich, brownish, amber.

Nose: Peat, smoke, sherry, wine, fruit.

Palate: Fruit, grapes, jelly beans, smoke, peat, sherry, raisins.

Finish: Pleasant.

The standard Lagavulin 16 is damn near perfect.  It's sweet, smooth, wonderfully textured, undoubtably smoky and peaty, yet calmly so.  This D.E. is very good, but it ultimately left me asking "why?".  The extra fruitiness here does a mild disservice to the spirit.  The texture isn't as nice, the leathery, smoky qualities are less balanced and pronounced? the experience isn't as heavenly.  I like the Lagavulin 12 Cask Strength more than this, but really Lagavulin has found something very special with the standard 16 that neither the 12 nor D.E. surpasses.  Caol Ila and Talisker on the other hand? I LOVE those distiller's editions more than their standard offerings.  

43% if I recall correctly.

87/100

Caol Ila 2012 Distiller's Edition

Colour:  Yellow mixed with a woody darkness.

Nose: Peat, Cotton Candy, Hay, The Ocean.

Palate: Fluffy vanilla cake, strawberry liquorice, smooth, peat and smoke.

Finish: Simple yet delicious.  The sweet and peat are both there but are separate.

This was just heavenly.

43% abv.

89/100

So, next review is #50!  Fortunately, I'm off to Scotland soon so hopefully it'll be something special...  I'm thinking Dewar's White Label...



Batch: lgv.4/502

ABV: 43%

Age: 16 years

Price: $110

Eye: 
Dark amber with orange facets

Nose:
Warm peat battles with a raisin heavy dark fruit for dominance. Malt comes up next followed by notes of caramel, iodine, brine, plums and wood. There is a whole host of complex sweet, savory and spicy notes sifting and swaying throughout this remarkable nose.

Palate:
The smoky peat gets a slight lead on the raisin heavy dark fruit which is followed by a big dose of sherry sweetness and silky malt. Under these heavyweights is a bed of caramel, salt, smoked meat, honey, iodine and a complex platoon of lighter sweet and savory flavors.

Finish:
Smoke and sherry waltz through with a string of savory spices, malt and wood on a luxuriously long finish.

Balance, Body & Feel:
It's strange to use the words delicate and Lagavulin in the same sentence, but that's the best way to describe it's balance which is paired with a rich full body and an oily texture that fills and coats the mouth and throat as it makes it's way down.

Score:
94/100

Overall:
It's a damn good whisky. It has all the amazing salty, briny, iodiney, peaty, smoky and yummy characteristics of the classic Lagavulin 16 but they're paired with some bold and delicious notes of raisin heavy dark fruit from the Pedro Ximenez sherry casks. It's sweet meets smoky in a tasty tango that puts a giant grin on my face with every sip.



Wow, you paid a lot for that. I got mine for ~$60 in Brooklyn. Maybe that's why I go through so much Laga!

Having a dram of it now, and I definitely feel you on the tasting notes. It's amazing how the sherry sweetness transforms the whisky.



I'm generally not a huge fan of Lagavulin

I didn't think this was a thing ;)



Sounds tasty. 

Love the review image!



Wow thanks for the review! 

I picked up a Lagavulin DE for $95 a couple weeks ago and some of the other reviews made me nervous about my decision. This makes me excited to try it. I think I'm going to save it for a special occasion though. 



I acquired this sample in a recent trade, along with several nice cigars. This is my first ever unicorn, if it's worthy of being called that, so I am going to review it and decide if I want to take one or more of the full bottle hook up offers I have been sent. 

It's crazy ecommerce retail season and I have been working 12 and 14 hour days. The plan is to step away for "lunch" a bit late this afternoon and give my self a micro vacation - after this review I will be heading outside to smoke one of the cigars that came with it. Maybe I will be able to jam in just a little bit of relaxing reading too. Hopefully upon my return I will be chilled out a bit and ready to go balls to the wall until after supper time without being snippy to my co-workers. It hasn't helped my disposition at all that I drank an entire pot of coffee in the first 2 hours of working this morning. 

Nose: at first whiff this is closer to Laphroaig than expected: more iodine and less campfire than the Lagavulin 16. Peat. Smoke. Bandages. More sherry sweetness than I had expected, but that's ok: It's been lit afire, smothered in peat, and bandaged to heal. Somebody better check under those bandages though: I am not 100% sure there's not something rotting somewhere.  Still, it insists on dancing about the hospital, wielding burnt sticks as swords to defend itself. The hospital is not far from the ocean, as there is a bit of sea salt and brine in the air. 

Mouthfeel: thicker than average, perhaps, but nothing crazy

Taste: initially smooth, with a hint of caramel or vanilla surprisingly. Then comes the burn, not very harsh. New wood, but that is quickly ignited by burning peat and the smoke takes over. When you get under that you find sherry notes: over ripe red fruits, fortified wine, some cinnamon or nutmeg or similar with a small hint of pepper.

Finish: short on the burn, but long on the overlapping flavors. Smoke and peat, sherry, back around to iodine, then off to sickly sweet fruit salad. Maybe even a hint of chocolate. There is no single aftertaste, it seems to be a roll of the dice on a per-sip basis which will stick with you. Mouth does feel dry when all is said and done, however.

I don't have a lot to say about this other than I liked it just about as much as the 16. The strength of the sherry finish detracts slightly, but the complex finish nearly makes up for it. This gets the highest A grade possible, but just doesn't quite reach in to A+ territory. 

Score: 96/100

Would I buy it again? Yes, but only a bottle or two instead of by the case as I thought maybe I would. So one of those who offered will likely hear from me later today, but not all. 

That's all for today, scotchit. I'll be outside with my Eastern Standard by Caldwell Cigar Co. 



Yeah, this isn't the first time it's been suggested I am too generous with my scores.  I arbitrarily went off the HHS grading scale and for me this is nearly an A+.

Also, I have bought every bottle available for sale in my state.  Not that it means much...



Sounds really delicious. I can get it here for 68 euro a bottle compared to 44 for the 16Y old. Or perhaps a Ardbeg Uigeadail for 55, choices choices...

Already had the 16Y and it's my favorite bottle that I own.



I think I found what you are looking for. Let me know what it means: if I am due for disappointment in the future I want to stock up now, I think

http://i.imgur.com/bBVypvS.jpg



That's from 2014 (L + the first digit, earlier years used different letters), bottled on January 15th (the next three digits are the day of the year). If you love it, you're in luck as you should be able to buy it from the same place and get one from the same batch. 

The one I bought was from 2013, and it didn't have any of the characteristics of a Lagavulin 16 I loved from when I tried it at a bar - that one you could smell from 3 feet away, it had a wonderful sweetness, thick mouthfeel, and no burn on the way down. The 2013 is just an average Islay with no outstanding qualities.

Thank you for going through all the trouble to find it and take a picture for me!



Today I'm writing my first review of a Lagavulin scotch. I wasn't a fan of Lagavulin 16 at first, but over time I've acquired a taste for peat and grown to enjoy it. The 12 cask strength is one I've yet to try, but would like to. /u/Dramonaut swapped me some DE2013 awhile back, and now I'm going to give it a go. It's finish in PX sherry casks, which sounds awesome. Let's see if it works!

Lagavulin Distiller's Edition 2013

Strength: 43%

Color: Dark golden brown. 

Nose: Smoked meats, peat, and char. Then a wave of fruity notes: strawberries, plums, and peaches. It's a nice combination of savory and sweet. 

Palate: Savory up front again with grilled meats and bacon. Sweet raisins and berries follow, then chocolatey notes show up too. 

Finish: Cranberries and bacon jam. Braised lamb with warm berry compote. 

Summary: Wow, I really like this. The savory and sweet combo is wonderfully balanced and bold. The lowish proof doesn't detract. Good stuff. 

Score: 91/100 

Scotch Review #94

Whisky Review #193

@review_bot scotch 



/u/LetThereBeR0ck's  reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



My bottle of 12 yr 2013 was a much much lighter color than that. Is this variance in color common?

Edit: might be the sherry finish



Right so I mistakenly just posted this as the 1993 DE, I wish...

I'm a major Lagavulin fan. I have yet to review the 16yo, or purchase a bottle for my cabinet, I was actually going to buy myself a bottle despite it being crazy expensive here (US$94). I walked into my favourite specialist whisky shop (one of two in the country), and saw shining under a halo of light, this fantastic nectar for US$8 more than the 16yo. After making sure my brain and eyes were functioning properly I walked out with my new friend. 

Aged 16 years give or take, Finished in PX sherry casks, 43%ABV, Caramelised and Chill Filtratified

Nose: Mineral peat. Seaside rocks. Jasmine tea. Maraschino cherries. Dust (like that fine desert sandstorm stuff). Glazed brisket (possibly what glazed ham smells like, never tried it). Cooked plums. Goji berries. Bit of a waxy note. Unsmoked tobacco. 

Palate: Dust. Mineral peat. Salt. Big waves of them. Eventually slows down and some juicy dark fruits shine through. Some caramelized nuts. Irish cream. Bitter chocolate. Bit of licorice, those hard, bitter pastilles you get wherever the authentic stuff comes from. 

Finish: Medium-Long. Maraschino cherries, bitter espresso. glazed meat. More dark chocolate, possibly a good chocolate liqueur. A bit of that sticky figgy note in PX sherry. 

Rating: 10/10

This was some amazing stuff. Incredibly complex with waves of different types of flavours flowing into one another. I'm not a fan of sweet whiskies, but something about peat and PX casks just works for me, and this is that marriage perfected. 



Wow, great find!  

I haven't had a great DE since the 90'es. I've tasted the new bottles the past couple of years, but they are dumped down in both taste and experience as a whole.  

If you like Pedro Ximenez finishes I'll recommend the Laphroaig PX if you can get hold of it.  

Those white grapes do wonders for Laphroaig too. 



I'm not a US resident :)

As for the reason I've never bought a bottle, it's one of several bottles I've been meaning to buy for a long time, but every time I go to the store to get it something else that I've never tried catches my interest. May that be the greatest of my worries. 



Sorry for jumping to conclusions :-)  

May I ask which country you are from? I would love to swap samples with people in /scotch but I don't know how.
I'm sitting on 5 Lagavulin 16 bottles and wouldn't mind trading/sample a bottle. 



I'm in Israel. 

Are you familiar with /r/ScotchSwap ?



Very different beast. 
Laga in general is a bit more of a gentle, refined peat monster, and the DE even gentler. 

Definitely try the 16 first. I 've never had a bottle, but I'm very familiar with it, had it a lot. Not sure where you are but you can probably find it at better stocked bars if you just want to taste. 