Lagavulin Distillers Edition 1995

43% ABV

Price

$125

Colour

Copper

Nose

Caramelised brown sugar, honey, faint smoke and a very faint medicinal smell.

Taste

Much fainter smoke than with the standard 16 year old expression.  Definitely the Lagavulin style dry peat smoke but sadly quite diminished.

The heavy sherry influence also adds hints of dark chocolate, coffee, black current and sweet berries.  What I find most odd about this whisky is that the sherry and the quintessential Lagavulin characteristics seems to present themselves completely separately from each other.

Adding water brings out the more familiar Lagavulin qualities.
This particular bottle took water well and I found it required some water and time in the glass to enhance the balance between what I have come to expect from Lagavulin and extra PX influence.

Finish

The finish is probably the best feature of this dram with a degree of smoke and a wall of sherry sweetness.

This is the only point that I found that the dry smoke and faint sweetness of the standard expression actually worked with the extremely sweet PX influence to create an excellent lasting finish.

To compare it to other whiskies I would say this is strikes me as the 16 year old married with the finish of the Auchentoshan 3 wood.

Summary

This bottle was purchased as part of a bulk order with some friends.  We bought 2 of the 94, 95 and 96.  The 95 bottles seem to have the poorest marriage of the traditional tastes of Lagavulin and the PX influence from the ?double maturation?.

This isn?t a bad drop at all but the combination doesn?t exactly work in my mind and I certainly don?t think it is an improvement on the 16 year old.  If the chance presents itself definitely try it, but I see this bottle as more of a novelty to be experienced rather than a bottle to be highly sought after.

If you really want an Islay whisky with a PX influence, seek out the vastly superior Laphroaig PX .The classic Laphroaig peat isn?t buried by the sherry and the sweetness excellently counters the bolder smoky qualities.

Score

82/100



Lagavulin DE 1995

Sorry it took me so long to post this second of my Lagavulin triple review, had a very busy week. 1/3 (12 year cask strength) can be found here.

Tasting Atmosphere: Alone in front of the computer listening to good music and browsing reddit, window open, soft breeze.

Color: orange amber

Nose: Apple cider, blood orange, plum, brandy/cognac, spice (cinnamon, clove). Faintest peat (almost none) and salt. Slight minerality (gravel or granite?) Deep notes express themselves with time to sit in the glass; Gunpowder tea, burnt sugar. Water brought out a hint of honey, but dampened the taste a bit (not recommended). 

Body: Medium full, faintly fatty

Taste: Lands with a spicy, smokey burn of cinnamon, barbeque, black coffee, and oak, quickly and dramatically smooths out into very soft and mild mulled and dried fruits. A bit of fresh orange and plum from the nose, but more dried fruit (dried mango?) and apple cider notes. Faintest hint of pie crust malt.

Finish: The big peat smoke comes back surprisingly and sharply into the finish, seeming to rise up out of nowhere. Tobacco/pipe smoke also in evidence, and the spice resurges for a moment. Despite the big smoke, the finish is mild after a moment, but incredibly long, with chocolate and apricot notes coming in. Exquisite. 

Rating: 96/100

Price: $135

Value: 8/10

Uniqueness: 9/10

Would buy again: 9/10

Notes: WOW this is an incredible whisky. Easily my favorite dram. Interestingly, arrives big and bold then rapidly dies down into mild, smooth and delicate; A unique combination of spice, smoke, and sherry fruits. Absolutely zero floral or phenolic notes (mind you, I am saying nothing against those notes, merely that as an Islay, their absence is noted) of any kind, and not a single off note in the entire dram. An interesting counterpoint to the 12 year Limited Edition, I found this to be milder and smoother than the standard 16 year expression. The Ximinez casks really pull their weight here. There need to be more heavily sheried, heavily peated whisky on the market! The two marry quite well. This dram is amazing as a desert or before bed, and also pairs incredibly well with dark chocolate (chocolate covered cherries and a dram of this was a positively life changing experience the other night). This has my hearty stamp of approval, favorite bottle I own bar none, even at the price. 







Review # 117

Lagavulin Distillers Edition 1995  43%  Swap: Thank You schmibitar!

Color:  Amber +2 - Quick Small Tears, Medium Legs.

Nose:  Iodine, Peat, Hint of Sherry, Scorched Caramel, Black Pepper, Leather, Sea Air, Barley Syrup, (The standard Islay elements), Dried Vegetal, Grass, Overripe Red Apple, Menthol.

Mouth Feel:  Medium Oily, Slightly Spicy.

Taste:  Peat and Iodine (consistent with the nose), Red WIne, Fennel Seed, Tobacco, Shellfish, Pepper, Dried Mint, Dark Chocolate, Clove, Salt.

Finish:  Spicy Pepper - Black and a hint of Red - Mineral, Earthy Vegetation, Brown Sugar, Walnuts, Long and Smoky, Radish, Sulfur.

With Water:  Nose:  More Earthy, Vegetal, Peat, Beach, Seaside, Caramel, Fennel.
Taste:  Tobacco and Leather notes more apparent, Followed by Red Pepper, Older Oak and Burnt Toast.

Score:  Nose:  24,  Taste:  23,  Finish:  23,  Balance:  24,   Total: 94

Long, smoky and peppery to sum it up.  A great Islay gem, perfect dram after a long day or week.  Personally I am not a cigar smoker but for those who are, I am betting this whisky would go very well with stogie.



I can't say it's worth an extra an $55.  For me the 16 is almost 97% the quality of the DE (The 16 I scored a 91 on the community review), therefore 16 is the better bang for the buck, but it does have a bit more depth of character.  

Very nice price on 16 by the way!  



I've been cautious of the Distiller's Editions from Diageo, but after realizing how fantastic Talisker DE is over regular Talisker, I'm very interested in giving this Laga a shot. An emphasis on smoky characters is always something I'm looking for in Islays. I prefer an emphasis on smoke to an emphasis on iodine or other medicinal tones. 

I am betting this whisky would go very well with stogie.

Sign me up. 



Lagavulin Distiller's Edition / 43% ABV / $105

Tasted neat

This bottle was distilled in 1995, bottled in 2011 (16 years), and double-matured for an unspecified amount of time in Pedro Xim?nez casks.

Folks know I love Lagavulin 12, and wine cask finishes, but this is a bottle I've struggled with before.  It's just not punchy enough for me.  Let's see what another sit down does?

Lagavulin needs to invest in better sherry casks, drop the age on this way down, and perhaps do first-fill sherry to at least have a hope of blending in a bit of bourbon-aged to get the profile right.  The nose and finish are great, but there's no body to this dram!  It's too bland, smooth, and various other adjectives you can pull from my Johnny Walker Blue review.

Rating: 78/100

89th review



I definitely needed to have some Laga again, and the community review afforded me a perfect opportunity... But I decided to be greedy and try the Distiller's Edition.  Although it was about a year ago that I first tried the 16, it made quite the impression on me, and I hope I can make a decent comparison.  This one is also aged 16 years but finished in ex sherry casks, and much more expensive.  This is the 1995 edition.  43%, $110.  

Nose: peat smoke, chlorine, and pine bark.  

Taste: tangy peat, malt, and pot roast, finishes with sherry, lime, gravel, bitter apple, and sticky smoke.  

Not quite as good as the 16, and I'm blaming the finish.  I would love to do a side-by-side, but it just seems like the sherry, rather than adding to, subtracted from the characteristic meat-peat.  Bitter sweetness cutting short the smoky peatness.  Also, I cannot say I plan on buying a bottle any time soon at that price.  Yet, damn, Laga has the best smoke flavor in the world. 93/100  



I had a bottle of the '91. It was by far my favorite bottle. It was so good that I admittedly finished it before I thought to review it. Now I have a sad.

Thanks a ton for the review, it's really good.



I was just accepted into my first preference for my graduate degree, played a well-received first gig with a new band last night, and now I'm up to my 50th review on /r/scotch. Let's make this one special, Scotchit. Vaughan Williams is on the turntable and my Christmas present is in the glass.

Lagavulin Distiller's Edition. Islay single malt, distilled 1995, aged 16 years then finished in Pedro Xim?nez sherry casks. Bottled in 2011 at 43% ABV. Local bottle price: $130 for 700mL.

Nose: Creamier than the standard 16, but the smokiness of the 16 hasn't been drowned out by the PX, at least not at this point. The peat, however, has definitely been toned back. To my nose, the PX casks have taken on a role of sculpting and refining the Lagavulin profile, rather than adding a bunch of out-of-place sweet sherry notes. There is some sweetness there, of course; soft vanilla, citrus, fresh pears, and marzipan, but it's a little subtle. 

Palate: Much more impressive on the palate than the nose (isn't it excellent when that happens?). Now the sherry is taking a much more dominant role. Creamy liquorice, dates and apple strudel. Oily, velvety texture, flavour is about as full as you can get at 43%.

Finish: A little short for my liking (I blame the barely-there ABV), but an orderly continuation of the palate flavours. Damp wood, juicy cherries, rich plums, and more liquorice. There are even some lighter summer fruits, particularly mango and rockmelon.

Quite different to the 16. If you're a smoke-or-death Scotch drinker, you won't like this (I know there are some of you out there, as evidenced by previous reviews I've read). I love it.

I had to score it lower than Uigeadail simply because the flavours are muted just a touch too much at the lower abv, but if Lagavulin bottled this at cask strength (and priced it in the same range as Oog or Corry), then I could see this beating out the Ardbegs. A delicious dessert dram.

91/100



Sounds great, can't wait to try your sample! I have a feeling that I'd like this, but the 12 will still be my favourite Laga. 

CS always wins.



Congrats on your 50th! And your program! And your gig! 

Damn, dude. 



Pedro Xim?nez finish. Never tried a sherry finished peaty islay before (to my knowledge), so this is new.

I get no peat or iodine or anything I?d expect.

Delicious whisky.. Sweet dessert whisky! Not quite as good as the 12, but very close in my opinion. More easy to drink though and less overpowering.



Hi! I love Lagavulin, but it's been a while since I had my last dram of it. Here is what I'm sipping now:

Lagavulin 1995 Distiller's Edition

Islay, 43%

There is written "Double Matured" on the label. It has been finished in Pedro Ximenez casks, but only for about six months so this is a bit misleading imo. Pedro Ximenez is sherry. If Lagavulin ever makes a rum finished malt they are probably gonna call it Raggavulin.

color: orange amber

nose: thick smoke, roasted almonds with chocolate icing, pipe tobacco, burnt caramel, citrus

taste: ash, smoke, strawberry cake, lemon, coffee, hints of soil and cherries, pine tree

finish: chocolate, wood sorrels, campfire smoke, dry

Lots of burnt notes on the nose. Smoky arrival turning sweet and sour in the development. Slightly burning on the tongue. Long finish.

It's good, but a bit boring. And for what it delivers just overpriced. Get the 16 yo instead. Or if you can spend a bit more take the 12 yo CS.

82/100



2012 

And it's not that I didn't like it; it's just I don't understand why people love it and--at least for me--it's way overpriced. 



another dram from my co-worker in a mason jar. The last one had some funky flavours as a result and I'm hoping this one wasn't ruined! 16 years old and finished in Px casks. Sounds good on paper

Lagavulin 1995 Distiller's Edition - 43% ABV

Appearance: goldish-pinkish-orange

Nose: some peat smoke with rich red fruit. Cherries, almonds. 

Palate: damnit, the fucking mason jars ruined this one too. I can taste the potential, with lots of nice peat and earthiness there, but that damn plastic taste from the lid wrecks it. some fruit comes through. 

Finish: better than the palate as the plastic dissipates quicker than the flavours. I get the peat smoke, and some fruit flavours in the long run. 

Score: 77/100

Overall: this would likely score mid to high 80s if not for the damn mason jar ruining it. this is such a waste. 



what worries me, is I've been recommended to use small mason jars like this for making bitters and i REALLY don't want these same off flavours seeping into my bitters. 

anyone who is reading here and has some advice, I am more than open to suggestions



I currently have a few fingers of Lagavulin 16 in the original bottle that I bought back in December and I'm quite impressed by it, no wonder is so highly revered by Ron Swanson.

I will say it's very likable to Laphroig 10 Year in terms of fragrance but a much smoother taste.