Review #15

Hello folks ! Gaija here for another review, this time concerning a sample that I'll be sad to see empty ? Let's get started if you please ! Note to mods : may I have my tartan please ? :3

Lagavulin 12 CS (2015 ed, 56,8?) NCF (I believe), and probably natural colour

Colour : light gold, and very thick legs : hinting right from the start that this is gonna be oily and full-bodied.

Nose : Undiluted, after 10mins breathing, Glencairn. Ah ! So very obvious. Textbook Lagavulin green olives, coming with the expected yet luscious combo of fish oil, acrylic paint, hot tar, anchovies. Perfect so far, the spirit has the word, and everyone else listens carefully. Then the other side of Islay appears, a more Laphroaigy one : medicinal subtle spice, camphor, slight sulphur and huge peanut butter. Thom Yorke would say "Everything In Its Right Place", and I would agree. But is this it ? No, sir ! Something about warm vegetables is coming ? think ratatouille ! Fresh walnuts, paprika, chickpeas, some kind of a delicious Chinese broth.  Oh come on, just when I though I was done with this nose, it evolves again : after 15 minutes or so, you get bright puffs of vanilla souffl?, soft almonds, fresh rum and warm dairy cream ? this is cask strenght eggnog ! Brilliant ! This was as pleasant as unexpected, frankly. The refill American oak has given all the fresh sugar it had without any of the rebuking dry wood / pencil shavings. What's not to love ? After yet some more time, an ethereal fruitiness appears. Macadamia nuts and wild strawberries on a bed of old rubber and wet pine needles. God, that was a nose.

Palate : I'm gonna be honest : I expected something sharp, uncompromising, and fiery. I'm gonna be honest : I was wrong. I could describe you how amazing this palate is without even mentioning tastes because it is texturally and "alcoholically" per-fect. So gentle and round on the arrival, not a single burn at this proof, one of the thickest, most velvety texture I ever encountered, ? this whisky acts like a gentleman. It has character, but does not have to shout and laugh hard to prove you so. Incredible. Exotic woods, custardy side again, sardines, walnut oil and paprika once more, splendid. Wet gravel under a summer sun. You know what I'm talking about. Coal, gently mineral smoke, then something like a platter of the freshest seafood. Fresh greengage and coconut to add some of these American oak yellow fruits again. Lovely.

Finish : dry yet full, compact yet everlasting ? oh come on, is it gonna stop being perfect ? Congrats for this mastered texture-play again. Prawns, big caraway seeds, shy strawberries, humus and beechnuts (you know, the ones we used to eat while we were walking in the woods on a rainy autumn day ?). Some green spiciness emerges : wasabi, coriander, gets quite medicinal again with dried raspberries, leather, unripe pears and ? back on our green olives. The cycle is complete. Glorious.

Buy a full bottle : I'd strongly consider it, yes. It is, simply put, more than glorious whisky ; it's glorious spirit. The texture only and the oh-so well integrated proof are sufficient features to bring this back home. I want my children, If I get any, to taste this someday.

Rating : "Way too harsh and young" ; "16 is older and cheaper, what a joke" ; "Too much peat that doesn't let you taste anything else" ? Enough with this shit, would you ? A well deserved 92/100

Sorry for this wall of text, hope you enjoyed it though !



Sorry for this wall of text, hope you enjoyed it though !

I sure did! Can't wait for the bottle I ordered to arrive.



I wish I had, but this was actually my first Lag 12. Anyway, I think you can't really go wrong with any of them ; sure there are variations, but I believe they remain similar in term of general quality. Not sure that any of them has its proof so well integrated though, I'd be curious to know.

I can only recommend Serge's insights if you want to further compare them, but I have yet to see him score one of them under 90 !



It's been a month, and hopefully you still have some left in the bottle. I found there to be a huge chocolate note that rises out after a few weeks after opening the bottle and having a few drams.

Thoughts?



This actually was from a 6 cl sample that is still half full, so I'll see how it has evolved next time I try it, and I'll gladly let you know, even if bottle evolution clearly isn't as striking on a sample than on a full bottle sadly.

Only thing I can say is each time I just open the lil bottle to have a sniff, I always find this "chickpeas-turnips-broth" that I find just amazing, even if it doesn't sound amazing on paper haha ^

Edit : but indeed what I meant with "eggnog" could perfectly be described as chocolate. Like, rather, mold and hot white / milk chocolate than dry dark one, do we agree ? And moreover, was this strong on the nose, palate, or both ?



Sounds like I may need to pick up a bottle of the 2015 at some point! Lots of detail here, great review Gaija.

Also, tartan granted! 



Part 2 of reviews while on holidays with some samples.  

I?ve never in my whisky drinking tried any Laga before (sacrilegious as I?m sure that is to most people), but I?ve just never gotten a round to it (and I?ve tried a lot of whisky to date).  

Again a very popular distillery that needs no introduction I?m sure.  

Lagavulin 12yo Cask Strength, 54.4%ABV, 12 years old, sample provided, so no idea of cost or availability   

NOSE:Young peat, tar, star anise, ripe pears, melon
PALATE: White pepper, more ripe melon, tar peat, some sugar notes, very gentle, getting more creamy vanilla notes
FINISH: Quick finish, bitter dark chocolate that fades to milk chocolate, gentle oak notes, peat kicks in but fades into a nutty finish
SCORE: 83/100
NOTES: Nice, nothing blowing me away, bourbon cask I think, peat is upfront but gentle in the end  



Hello there scotchit I?m here with my first comparative review of three Lagavulin drams (wasn?t sure if anyone knew about laga 16) anyway I?ll be reviewing the 16 year, the 2011 12 year and the 2014 Feis Ile release. Quick nod to /u/Whisky_Lads who provided the 12 and Feis Ile  really quite an age ago, feels like last year. Anyway here goes:

Lagavulin 16 year:  

Thought I?d start with the most oft reviewed one and the standard release as the basis for comparison.  

ABV: 43%  

Colour: Dark amber   

Nose: waves of subdued peat with some lovely applewood smoke, charred oak and a little vanilla sweetness drift into your nose followed by some smooth caramel and plenty of sherry fruits in there as well.  

Palette: Peaty and Earthy, fairly spicy with a pinch of cinnamon in there, more dried fruits and a little pear as well. Behind these are a soft vanilla and a touch of brine.  

Finish: Starts of sweet with dried fruit and caramel, becomes more bitter with woodsmoke charred oak and dark roast coffee.  

Conclusions: Really well balanced dram of well crafted whisky, it?s just a shame it doesn?t pack a bigger punch, I think cask strength is what it needs so we?ll see what the 12 year looks like.

88/100

Lagavulin 12 year (2011)

ABV: 57.5%  

Colour: dark yellow gold  (much lighter than the 16)

Nose: mmm peat and plenty of it, cutting through all the peat comes the  sweetness, apple, vanilla, floral honey and oak, with an ever present but subtle smoke. Packs a much bigger peaty punch than the 16, I could smell this all day.  

Palette: plenty of peat, salted caramel  envelops your tongue with an oily mouthfeel, slowly it imparts the tastes of oak, vanilla, and apples along with a little iodine to your mouth. Much sweeter than I was expecting and really quite different from the 16, Punchier with it?s peat and much less fruity (as could well be expected) than the 16

Finish: long and warm, one of those that travel right to back of your nose so it feels as though you are breathing the peat, smoke and oak right out of your nostrils.   

Conclusions: I must say I adored this, I?m a sucker for cask strength peat bombs really blew the 16 out of the water, the Feis Ile?s got some work to do now.  

92/100  

Lagavulin Feis Ile (2014)  

This is a cask strength whisky, matured in European oak sherry butts for 19 years.  

ABV: 54.7%  

Colour: Dark Amber   

Nose: the first not to lead with peat this leads with a very sherried nose, the peat and woodsmoke follow closely behind, plenty of fruits; oranges, apples and raisins along with a smattering of fresh berries as well. Much more similar to the 16 than the 12, noses like you might imagine a CS 16 would.  

Palette: Charred oak and lemons cut through the sweetness of blackcurrants, blackberries and redcurrants with a splash of ocean spray in the mix. As it developed I got a little anise and pipe tobacco. All this with a peaty earthiness providing the backdrop to the dram.   

Finish: Exceedingly long finish. Sherry and oak, some thick orange marmalade and twist of black pepper make this slip down a treat.  

Conclusions: Another excellent dram, god damn I was sure it wouldn?t live up to the 12, but it did really well balanced CS sherried peat bomb.  

92/100

Overall

The Feis Ile and the 12 year's extra strength allowed them to burst through the 16 year with plenty more flavours. The feis Ile was much more similar to the 16 year than the 12 was, because of the sherry. Comparing the 12 to the feis Ile, they were opposite sides of coin; one being bourbon cask and the other sherry, but both really worked. Equal but opposite in my eyes.



Watch a bunch of richard peterson videos:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=frRonhQdRdQ

Taking your time is a big step. Smelling the whiskey, letting it rest in your mouth for how many years it has been barreled, breathing while its in your mouth, etc. Watering it down or having it on ice also releases different flavors. 

The rest comes from experience. Having a lot of different foods, spices, and so on will expand your palette. Cooking is ideal for this, but you can do it by having lots of different foods. Like certain foods, Japaneese wagyu, Foie Grais, Duck, goat, etc, did wonders in expanding my palette, in terms of describing foods, cooking foods, and eating foods. 

Drinking lots of different whiskeys also helps. But generally if a person only has mcdonlads, and pizza, thier taste pallete is going to be extremely limited, to the point where they don't actually know good food as they are eating it. Eating very bland food and then trying curry might be too big  a step for instance. Same how there is a burn in period for drinking hard liqour when you are young.   



Great reviews. Who the fuck down votes this though?!

I, for one, enjoyed reading it!



Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban (46%)

Nose: grape, lemon, cedar, chocolate, peach

Taste: butterscotch, some kind of hard-to-place nuttiness, sour blackberry

Finish: dry and tannic, longer than I expected. Aftertaste of vanilla. 

Pretty non-complex, but in a pleasant way. Not as sweet/sour and juicy as I was hoping for based on other port finishes. Hard to find anything to dislike, but there's not much going on in the palate that speaks to me. Strikes me as a good bottle to have around to offer to newbies.

83/100

Bruichladdich The Laddie Ten (46%)

Nose: In a word, funky. Parmesan cheese and sweat. Some people have said they get a vomit note. I can kind of see that. On a more pleasant note: saltwater taffy, melon. 

Taste: Brine, a bit of smoke, honey, nice creamy mouthfeel, butter.

Finish: Mild and mellow. Stays light all the way through.

Easy to like, hard to love. But damn it, this is interesting. It never gets boring. I'm gonna have to make sure this bottle lasts until summer, because I'd really like to be sipping it on a warm evening.

87/100

Laphroaig Quarter Cask (48%)

Nose: It's Laphroaig all right. Ash, smoke, iodine, you know the drill!

Taste: Smoke, leather, vanilla. Youthful yet woody. You know that hackneyed joke where you list a bunch of adjectives but every other one is the same? Tempted to do that here with "smoke" but I'll spare you. Once you get acclimatized to the smoke, a sweetness starts to shine through...

Finish: Cured meat and peat

Dat 48%. Makes for an alcohol smolder that goes perfectly with the smoke emphasis. This is a little bit one-dimensional, but heck, it's a great dimension. I went through this bottle fast and will almost certainly get another. Great value!

89/100

Lagavulin 12, 2013 (55.1%)

Nose: Banana, earth, salt.

Taste: Bitter dirt, brown sugar, peat.

Finish: smoke and charcoal. Quite long. You just want to chew on it and smack your lips for a while.

This is a lot smoother than its ABV would indicate. Strong yet restrained. Deep and mysterious. And yet... I don't like it more than Lagavulin 16.

90/100



Lagavulin 12, 2016, 57.7% ABV

I've had a bottle of Lag 12 before and thought it was quite good but not great. This is the edition from 2016, which also happens to be the 200th anniversary of the distillery, to which there's a nice little nod on the label.

Nose: Vanilla, woodsmoke, sawdust, new books, candied nuts.

Taste: Huge phenolic, tarry, briney arrival. Develops very sweetly indeed, like a smoky, bacon-wrapped fig. Maple syrup, caramel, that sort of thing.

Finish: Seems to get sweeter as it goes on. Lemon bonbons, powdered sugar, some bitter oak in the background. As you might imagine, smoke hangs around, leaving your mouth feeling a little scorched, dry and cottony, like you've just exhaled a cloud of weed smoke.

This is a real scotch-drinker's scotch. It would blow a beginner's face off, but to someone who's accustomed to peat and high proof, it's a treat, sweeter and less earthy than I remember a previous edition being. It's also a good way to really explore the character of Lagavulin's distillate without much cask influence (probably just refill bourbon casks here?) and at a real sweet spot maturity-wise, with just enough age to round off the rough edges and introduce a subtle richness but preserve that sparkling and dynamic young Islay character. 

It's a stone-cold classic in my book. Grade A. 94/100



Tonight for my 49th scotch review (mods take note and pay attention tomorrow) I'm reviewing the 2012 cask strength bottling of a 12 year old Lagavulin. Thanks to /u/xpentakx for swapping me this sample. Let's see how this stacks up against the older Lagavulin bottlings, which I love.

@review_bot scotch 'Lagavulin'

Nose: sweet peat - birch, sea shore, earthy, and smoked salmon. A cigar box, with a hint of cream, butter, and cocoa. Nice potency to clear the sinuses.

Taste: sugar and black pepper on entry, then lots of burning fury. After that's over, you are left with ash coated bitter citrus, earthen/vegetal notes, and flaming vanilla which, as your taste buds are one by one burnt to a crisp and rendered useless, almost tastes sweet again.

Finish: stout burn, peat fade out, and aftertaste remains smoky, sweet, and salty.

Like an oil refinery, this dram simply overpowers anything and everything in the neighborhood and the next two neighborhoods as well. It's lacking more than just the sherry finish of its elder brethren, it's also lacking some of the genteel
sophistication that comes with a bit more maturity. B+

Score: 88/100

Would I buy it again? Why does my template torment me with this question? Why??



/u/kdz13's Lagavulin reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Do you always drink these neat? No offence but if the burn is so much of an issue you can add water to it, it's not a crime. 

Personally Springbank 12 CS (52.3%) was my first cask strength and I still can't take it neat. A wee bit of water really calms it down and improves it a lot for me. Others like Port Charlotte Scottish Barley are perfectly drinkable at 50%.

Thanks for your review.



Do you always drink these neat?

I do lately, yes. In the beginning I used to try with and without water, but honestly didn't feel it made a big difference. With the possible exception of a community review, I don't open a cask strength sample if I'm not in the mood for one.

If my comments come across as suggesting the burn is a problem, I apologize. That's not the case at all. Rather, I am attempting to describe to the best of my rather limited ability what is the experience of taking a sip of the whisky into your mouth. At a minimum, my reviews and scores are intended to allow the kdz13 of the future to recall the whisky and make intelligent choices about drinking again. If the rest of the community benefits by reading (as has been claimed) that's great, but if not I'll go offline and follow the same processes I've begun. 

I've learned so very much since first I read texacer's guide to reviewing, and I thank all of you for that



No problem. I have only done a few reviews myself and it is certainly not easy. I like reading your reviews as much as anyone else's, every review is useful in my opinion. Thanks for clearing up your thoughts on this matter.

Edit: To add on my initial comment, I didn't mean to be rude or tell you how to do it. The burn note is something that really intrigued me.



Lagavulin 12 (2014)

(54.4%, refill American oak casks, 2014 special release, 31428 bottles)

?

The 14th release of the ?limited edition? Lagavulin 12, or as limited as a release can be when it?s an annual affair with over 30,000 bottles produced.  

Thanks to u/DistillAsian for this sample!

?

Nose: Straw, earth, citrus, vanilla, dry wood smoke, iodine

Taste: Ash, iodine, black pepper, wood, vanilla, cream, beef broth, lightly smoked pears

Finish: Citrus, salt, charred wood, earth

? 

Farmy peat, earthy with some sweetness and seaside notes (from the iodine). Texture is equal parts oily and creamy, with a mild meatiness and fruity sweetness. Finish is long on citrus, charred wood and earth.

Fairly intense, a little rough around the edges. Not very complex, the notes are pretty consistent from start through the finish. A solid ?B? dram, just edges out the 200th anniversary Lagavulin 8y for me as it?s a little unbalanced. Felt the 8y had many of the same flavours, but more harmony... the earthy peat in the 12y was overly dominant, almost choking off the other notes? but some of the sweeter notes burst through in the end just enough to pull it through.

?

85/100



Great review!  I got a lot of grapefruit on this - pretty overpowering citrus note for me

Given how "limited" this bottling is, I'm surprised we haven't gotten the 2015 version locally



The last of my amazeballs samples I got in a trade (For those not following the others were: Laphroaig Cairdeas 2013, Laphroaig 18, Laphroaig 15 Old bottling, Compass Box Lost Blend and Bowmore Laimrig). I've been wanting to try this for a long time, but didn't know anyone with a bottle and it was out of my budget.

Aged 12 years, 56.1%ABV

Nose: Ashy peat. Hot wet rocks. Brine. Young spirit. With water: Wood notes become more prominent. Develops wood sap, white grape juice, apple, light red fruit and demerara sugar notes. 

Palate: Heavy, ashy peat. Some juicy citrus. Lemon. Salted Butter. Honey. With water: Fruity notes become more prominent. Dry wood. Red fruit. 

Finish: Medium. Salty. Burned fruit. Dry wood. More honey.

Rating: 10/10

I really loved this one. The younger age and cask strength really gives it a lot more vuma than the 16 year old. What really blew my mind was how distinct the change was with a few drops of water, almost like two differet whiskies, both amazing. Might save up a few months whisky budget for a bottle. 



I got this in a shared purchase with some friends along with the Caol Ila 17 "Unpeated" which I reviewed a few days ago. I like Lagavulin a whole bunch and have previously tried the 2012 release which was amazing. 

EDIT: Just looked back at the 2012 release review and noticed it was exactly 100 reviews ago.

Aged 12 years, 56.8%ABV, Matured in Bourbon Casks, NCA, NCF, CS

Nose: Ashy peat. Green bananas. Peaches n' cream oatmeal (fruity and malty together). Castile soap. New leather upholstery (the real stuff). Hint of kiwi shoe polish too? Lemon drops. Some aromatic green herbs, menthol, wintergreen, parsley. 

Palate: Woah, huge smoky note and big mouthful of black pepper. Followed by sweetened lemon juice, honey and malt. Chamomile and honey on the swallow, some oil smoke too. 

Finish: Long. Dry charred wood. Leather on the tongue. Hints of fruits in the mouth. Pepper at the back of the throat. A lingering saltiness. 

This was fantastic! So much complexity, so much oomph. I think I prefer this a little over the 2012 release. The leathery notes and the changes between fruit and peat and spice really make this dram special. 



Matured in Bourbon

Is that standard for the 12yr CS, or do they vary? The 16yr is a sherry finish, right?

Oh and grats on the upcoming bicentennial!



Well, it's a special release(that magic word that makes whisky more expensive ) . That aside it's cask strength. 

I also find peated whiskies to be better at a younger age, when the peat stoll kicks like a mule. 



Let the bottle rest once you've gotten a 1/4 or so into it for a month or more and watch these beautiful chocolate/truffle notes come out of nowhere.

One of my favourite bottles.



I wish I had a full bottle. We split our shared purchases 7 ways so each of us gets 100ml. 

I've still got about about 2 drams left, I'll let the next one sit for a while and see what happens. 



I just bought myself a bottle of the Lagavulin 16 and i was hoping to get some idea about when it was bottled.

I am pretty sure it was bottled fairly recently, since it has Port Ellen written on the bottom of the main label.

But this is still something that i am very interested in knowing more about.



Hello everyone!

Thanks for all the support and comments so far!

Unfortunately Lagavulin was not doing normal tours and was closed for refurbishment. I wasn't really that bothered because (wait for it) I don't really like Lagavulin that much (cue angry mob at my door). Although I must admit I'd only tried the 16yo. Thankfully I stopped to have a look in the shop on the way to Ardbeg to correct my outlook of this distillery.
I'd always been curious about the 12yo Cask Strength, they didn't have the new 2015 edition but they did have 2014. 
When I asked to try some I was shown into a very comfy small lounge with sofas and displays.

Lagavulin 12 2014 Ed. 54.4%

Colour: Light Gold

Body: Full

Nose: Great balance of earth and citrus. Chocolate, sea salt, caramel, liquorice.

Water: More citrus.

Taste: Big, sea salt, smoke and citrus, then more smoke with a medicinal note then more earthy and mineral. 

Water: Less intense, more citrus, earthy development.

Finish: Long length. Earthy chocolate and citrus.

Notes: Great balance and complexity.

83/100

A great whisky, well above the 16yo which I normally score 73/100. Lagavulin can be great when it's not chill filtered too much, watered down too much and had colouring added. Perceptions shattered.

Now onto the exciting stuff: Ardbeg.

So here we were, what I thought would be the pinnacle of the trip: the decades tour at Ardbeg. A tour with a tasting of Ardbeg from each decade since 1970.

They had changed the time on my tour to earlier, so I turned up and was told that the tour was free because they'd changed the time. Free. FRREEEE!!! ?35 would be a great deal for what you get on the tour. But free was fucking epic. Thanks Ardbeg!!

The guy taking the tour (damn I can't remember his name) was very professional and knew his stuff.
I was on the tour with 9 huge Norwegian guys who were great fun and loved Ardbeg.

So the tour started outside on the rocks right out by the sea. The guide poured us a healthy dram of the Perpetuum Distillery Release and we had it during an in depth history of Ardbeg. Right there with the wind and sea crashing around us. Good start, good thing it wasn't raining.

Ardbeg Perpetuum Distillery Release 49.2%

Colour: Light Gold

Body: Light

Nose: Very light and fruity- Citrus lime and some lemon.

Taste: Very light with citrus and some smoke.

Finish: Medium length.

Notes: Very light and not much smoke for Ardbeg. 

72/100

After that we went on a detailed tour of the distillery. No photos I'm afraid because health and safety.

No maltings, too expensive and inconsistent, so malt is brought in from Port Ellen, peated to 55-60ppm. Last 3 years they've been using Concerto but the next 3 years they'll be using Optic. Interesting.

Bobby mill then mashing in another huge spaceship-like mash tun. Think it's fairly new.
Then wooden washbacks, which the guide explained give an oily mouthfeel to the spirit because of the bacteria that live in the wood. However, he is of the opinion that wooden washbacks are coming to an end and that if European legislation changes so that the wine industry can only use steel then whisky will follow. Good to know.

We then went to the still room. Ardbeg's stills are pretty big and the spirit still has a purifier that returns the heavier oily compounds to the pot to be redistilled, giving Ardbeg a light citrus-y-ness.

The guide also said that Ardbeg had had a surprise visit from HMRC the other week and they'd been caught out on loads of things. The main one being leaving the spirit safe open. So of course it was still open. We got to taste a little each too. 

Low Wines 26%: Oily smoke, some hay and grass.

Spirit 69%: Very oily, some lime, engine oil, hay and malt.

After that we went to the filling store. Mainly Jim Beam/Jack Daniels barrels are used but only for 2 fills. 

We also got to see the trench where they dump the barrels for the whisky to be filtered and bottled.

One of the Norwegian guys, in a stroke of genius, asks about the whisky dregs left in the bottom of the trench. The guide replies that it would probably be some whisky left from the last batch. A batch of 10 year old maybe, 30-40 barrels maybe. Of course then we had to try it. 

Ardbeg dregs 57%ish: Rich and sweet. Honeyed, lemon and lime, long finish.

Classic juicy Ardbeg.

Anyway, after all that it was onto the tasting. Upstairs in a sort of boardroom we sat down and were shown the whiskies we would taste. A 1976 Ardbeg, bottled 2002. Then 1998 Sherry, 2000 bourbon and a 2005 French oak finish. All cask samples.

Ardbeg 1976-2002 1st fill Sherry Butt 53.5%

Colour: Dark Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Rich and heavily sherried as expected from 26 years in a 1st fill Butt. Stewed fruit, raisin, date, fig. Still some fresh lime citrus. Orange too. A light cinnamon spice with honey, syrup and a little medicinal note- Cough sweets.

Water: More medicinal.

Taste: Tropical fresh arrival, citrus fruit, lots of orange, building sherry- Raisin with lots of spice. A little smoke still left but mouth coating and oily.

Water: More easy arrival, less spicy, but it builds with a complex citrus smoke. Really comes together, amazing.

Finish: Long/Very long length. Sherried spice and raisin, then a wisp of smoke.

Notes: Unfortunately I didn't get as much time to appreciate this as I hoped. It was really coming together and it was onto the next one. Again, if I'd had more time it might have gotten into the fabled 90's.

89/100

Then another sherried number, that I guess replaced a 1980's barrel.

Ardbeg 1998-2015 Refill Sherry Butt 50.6%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Fresh and fruity, mango, pineapple, apple, spice- Ginger, a little smoke.

Water: More fruit infused smoke, more balance.

Taste: Easy, light arrival. Fruity then huge smoke kicking up with lots of hay and grass, lime, orange, sour and spicy into the finish. Lots of spice- Ginger and white pepper.

Water: Lighter again with more citrus and less spice. More sherry and more balance.

Finish: Long length. Spiced smoky citrus, sour and bitter.

Notes: Water really brought this together. 

86/100

Then onto a Bourbon barrel. 

Ardbeg 2000-2015 1st fill Bourbon Barrel 53.7%

Colour: Gold

Body: Medium

Nose: Amazingly fresh and fruity! Lots of vanilla, mango, amazing lime, lemon, orange, marzipan, lemon infused smoke.

Water: More tropical smoke then more marzipan and vanilla, then more citrus.

Taste: Full and fresh. Very fruity- Lime, lemon, orange, mango, pineapple, full Ardbeg smoke with lots of spicy ginger and white pepper.

Water: More light then fruity, spicy and smoky. Maybe a tad too spicy.

Finish: Long length. Fruity and spicy with some smoke.

Notes: Another great one.

84/100

And a last one, finished in Virgin French Oak.

Ardbeg 2005-2013 Bourbon, 2013-2015 New French Oak 56.4%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: More more fragrant and spicy than the others and much more dry. Coriander, dry cinnamon, tannins, ethereal. More vanilla after a bit.

Water: More vanilla sweetness.

Taste: Light arrival, sweet with lime citrus and building lemon, then peat smoke with spicy coriander, white pepper and ginger. A little hot going into the finish.

Water: Less spicy and hot. More citrus, a lot more lime. More balance.

Finish: Long length. Spicy with white pepper, ginger and lime citrus.

Notes: 10 year old Corryvrekken maybe? Found it a bit too spicy though.

82/100

Overall a great tour and fantastic whisky. Ardbeg make some good stuff. After the tour and being pretty drunk I sobered up with some food in the cafe, which was really good.

Ended up buying a Oog and a Corry. Was tempted by Supernova and Kildalton but double the price for more collectable whiskies implies to me that they won't be worth it, even if the Kildalton box is badass.

Coming up: Part 5: Last day, best day. Kilchoman and Bruichladdich.

Links to the other parts:

Part 1: Springbank

Part 2: Bowmore, Caol Ila and Bunnahabhain

Part 3: Laphroaig



aw, I got excited.  small fantasy of mine to go across Scotland hiking and staying in Bothys. 

how are the cottages?