This is a review of Laphroaig 15 200th anniversary edition bottled at 43%. The sample for this review came from a dram I had at a bar in a glencairn.

?

N: Medicinal but not very smoky, bandages, tire rubber, brine, lemon, oranges, vanilla, dry grass, pine needles.

?

P: Iodine, ash, vanilla, grilled fruit, salt, orange peel, soft smoke.

?

F: Medium-long. Smoky fruit notes fade out.

?

Overall: This is good but I was expecting more. The nose was the best part and then the notes became a little flat on the palate. It has no obvious flaws but was thinner and gentler than I would have liked and I really wonder why they did not bottle this at 48%. Maybe I have been spoiled by some excellent cask strength Laphroaig I have had a chance to try lately but this one fell a little short of expectations for me.

?

Score: 82

edit: formatting



I found this one very good despite the low proof.

Would love to see a 48% or cask strength version.



Laphroaig 15, 200th Anniversary Limited Edition

Islay, 43% ABV, $75 US

Nose: Peat, oranges, fruity candy, frosting, caramel, bacon, ocean, flowers

Palate: Peat, peppered steak, popcorn, hard candy, cake, iodine/medicinal, dry, menthol, malt. Actually very light

Finish: Dry, long but not harsh, smoke, cinnamon, lollipop aftertaste

92/100.  I never had the pleasure of trying the original Laphroaig 15 but this is certainly quite good. A lot lighter than I expected in all of the notes - the peat, fruit and sweeter components do immediately stick out but it took me a while to pick up even subtle hints of some of the flavors above. Still, that subtlety lends itself nicely and this is very enjoyable throughout. I think I prefer the QC but by barely any margin. Wouldn't hesitate to buy this again.



Laphroaig 15 / 43% / $100

Tasted neat

A quick Islay review of the now discountinued 15 year Laphroaig, which has been replaced by the 18 year old.  Essentially the 10 year old, with five years on it.  Sadly diluted to 43%, but still hopeful!

Tasty, uncomplicated, and rounded-off little laphroaig dram.  The things that drive people nuts about the 10 year are rounded off, but it's not nearly as dull as the 18 year old.

A relic!

@review_bot 'Laphroaig'

Rating: 86/100

92nd /r/scotch review



/u/ecb29's Laphroaig reviews in /r/['scotch', 'bourbon', 'worldwhisky']:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Greetings Scotchit! So, due to the graciousness of /u/mattofmattfame, I will be the next centurion of this subreddit! Thanks dude, but we all know it could have been you! =) My first review was written on March the 4th, and was of the first Scotch I'd ever enjoyed, from a 200ml bottle I received for my birthday on the 16th of December, 2012: Talisker 10. It was a smoky revelation, and I don't think I'm exaggerating when I say it completely changed my life.

Since then, I've tried well over a hundred whiskies of all sorts; I've written over a hundred reviews; I've gone to Islay; I've swapped with several of the awesome people who inhabit this subreddit; and I've amassed a pretty decent collection (for drinking purposes!) of whisky. It's been a pretty wild 9 months. Reading my first review now is rather amusing. My notes are pretty spot on, but my language was far more poetic. Perhaps that's a good thing? I also gave it an 88, which I think is about 3 points too high, but I still use Talisker as a baseline for my scores. Better than Talisker? Mid-80's.

Anyway, I've wondered what I'd review for #100, and could never really decide. Should I review something insanely old and expensive like a Port Ellen or the Caperdonich I just got? Should I re-review Talisker 10 and return to my roots? But no, for this one I decided to do a double header of the distillery I've reviewed the most, and one that I've sort of accidentally fallen in love with. I say accidentally, because whenever people asked me what my favourite distillery was, I'd say Talisker. And yet, I have a shelf stocked with Laphroaig 10, 10 CS, 15, 18, 23, PX, Cairdeas Portwood and Cairdeas Origins (holy shit, that's 8 bottles!); and I have 9 Laphroaig reviews in the archive.

Clearly, I love Laphroaig. And today I'm going to review another 2, to make over 10% of my Scotch reviews Laphroaig reviews. Anyway, enough rambling: Laphroaig 15 and the bottling that replaced it: Laphroaig 18!

Laphroaig 15
Islay, 43% ABV, chill-filtered, E150, ?80 for 700ml at auction, discontinued

Nose: Phenolic peat and brine. Flinty.  Toasted oak and caramel. Pepper and salt crystals. Wet rocks. Malty sweetness.

This is actually really good. A perfect balance of medicinal peat smoke, minerals and sweetness. Brilliantly balanced nose with no alcohol burn whatsoever, perhaps due to the slightly lower ABV. Seriously great stuff - a smoky and salty divine elixir.

Taste: Creamy. Medicinal peat and smoke. Coastal and mineralic (is that a word?). Seawater. Toasted oak and caramel. Brown sugar and malted barley. Light oak tannins and super mild bitterness. Tiny hint of astringency. Sweet malt and something fruity (apricot?). Cracked black pepper.

A tiny bit astringent here, but still wonderfully balanced. A very classic Laphroaig, but a bit more balanced than the peat blast of the 10. I know others think the QC fills that niche (and they're wrong), but this has a much better balance of wood and smoke.

Finish: Medium-long. Smoke and pepper. Salty sea air. Buttery and malty. Slight iodine. Oak char and vanilla. Slightly bitter oak tannins.

Very decent. Good stuff, but the finish brings nothing new to the table. A light oaky bitterness, but it's mild enough that it doesn't bother even me, so it's basically non-existent.

Summary: Extremely balanced, supremely coastal and just so quintessentially Laphroaig. It's also extremely drinkable, and for once I think that the ABV of 43% is chosen well - any more and this might be hostile instead of being as silky smooth as any Laphroaig has the right to be.

This is a fantastic release, it's a real shame that it's gone now.

Score: 91/100
Fantastic.

Buy Again? Yes, if I can find a bottle for under ?100 at auctions.

Laphroaig 18
Islay, 48% ABV, NCF?, E150, ?70 for 700ml

Nose: Phenolic peat and smoke. Wood and oak char. Caramel and pepper. Cinnamon and cloves/allspice. Brown sugar. Something fruity (clementines?). Red apple and sweet malt. Flinty. Slight alcohol sting. 

Almost like a smoked caramel apple. Definitely coastal, but the bourbon cask influence makes this an altogether sweeter affair, with a great deal more wood spices. However, I think the balance on this is a bit off and it's a bit of an overly sweet, yet harsh, Laphroaig.

Taste: Pepper and medicinal smoke. Toffee and red apple. Sweet malt and light honey. Cinnamon. Slight oaky bitterness and oak char. Brine. Lemons. Light alcohol sting.

Very smoky and medicinal, but sweetness carries through. A little bit of bitter oak tannins and lots of spices. The balance is still somewhat off, and I think this is both too sharp and spicy, and a little too sweet. It just lacks a bit of that rounded Laphroaiginess that the 15 and 10 both exhibit.

Finish: Quite nice! Lengthy. Bourbon influence is apparent. Warm smoke and iodine. Brine. Toffee and oak. Light fruitiness - apples and peaches. Salt and pepper.

This is wonderfully warm and satisfying. Definitely the nicest part of this, the sweetness perfectly counteracting the smoke. Classy and lovely.

Summary: I just can't love this as much as the 15 - it doesn't do the same thing, presenting a more spicy wood-forward approach. It's almost less Laphroaig, despite being harsher. 

It almost feels like part of the reason the 15 was retired was so that more refill casks could be used in the vatting for the 18, with the extra 3 years of maturation hopefully counteracting some of the harshness. I could be wrong, of course, and Laphroaig really do send all their used casks to Ardmore as they claim they do.

Regardless, this seems to have a central conflict between the bourbon cask sweetness and the medicinal smoke, which hasn't been tamed as much by the 18 years in wood as you'd expect. And it's not even that sweet! It's just sweet for a Laphroaig. 

Score: 86/100
Not as bad as I made it sound.

Buy Again? No, sorry. There's too much good Laphroaig out there to save a spot for this.

Previous Laphroaig reviews:

Laphroaig 10 - 85/100 (adjusted)

Laphroaig Quarter Cask - 83/100 (adjusted)

Laphroaig Triplewood - 81/100

Laphroaig PX Cask - 88/100

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength - 94/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin - 95/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood - 95/100

Laphroaig Vintage 1989 - 94/100

Laphroaig 7 Signatory UCF - 75/100

Laphroaig 13 Battlehill - 75/100

In my book, the 10 CS is still the semi-affordable Laphroaig king, but the 15 is definitely up there. It's close enough to the top that it's making me wonder how much I could secure a couple more 15's for.

Fuck yeah, 100! I've got about 20 samples coming in next week, so I'm not going to stop reviewing just because I reached this landmark. Thank you all for being an awesome community, you've helped me immensely. Special greetings to /u/Trexid and /u/rmill3r, who I've competed with in review count for my entire Scotchit life. Haha, beat you both! Don't take too long getting here! Also greetings to /u/mattofmattfame, who is certain to be our next centurion. Welcome to the club!

Oh, to send you off, here's my favourite review I've written of all time: Laphroaig Quarter Cask while sick.



Congrats on the 100 reviews! Laphroaig 15 is a favourite of mine, it's shame it's discontinued. Luckily I have a sizable stash.

/r/CenturionClub



I made ages ago as a joke. It's currently private and empty.

Should we make it a thing?



It'll just be a sub for saying "Welcome to our newest member, <person>!"

Can't think of any other content that would fit there.



Figured as much. 

It'd be kind of cool to know who are members though. Off the top of my head:

Jan-12, texacer, UncleTobys, Allumina, TOModera, rockindaddy and me. 

Probably missed a fair few (relatively inactive) posters.



Congrats Dworgi, looks like in the end you overtook me! :) Now I've got some work cut-out to get up to the century club as well.

Enjoy your new flair!



congrats on the 100! i always pay a little closer attention to your reviews

and yeah, i miss the 15...twas one of my favorites before it disappeared...



Nicely done.. Laphroaig is the drink that got me into whisky, it is and will always be my favorite distillery.

I look forward to your next 100 reviews!



Congrats on the 100 mark, Dworgi.  Sounds like you and I started drinking whisky at about the same time, but you've clearly been more motivated in your reviews!  Way to go!

I'd sure love to try some of that Laphroaig 15. . .



Thanks to /u/sergeantbiggles for the sample!  Aged for 15 years and bottled at 43% ABV.

?

Nose:  Medicinal rubbery peat smoke.  Yeah, this is Laphroaig.  As it sits in the glass, some citrus and fruitiness start to be apparent.

Palate:  Somewhat thin on the palate.  Nicely subdued compared to the 10 year.  More fruit and less smoke and burnt medicine.  Strawberries, oranges, and lemons.

Finish:  Medium finish.  Brine right away.  Burnt rubber comes on next.  Then some salt and just a hint of lemon left.

Score: 88/100

?

This is nice.  It tones down the aspects of Laphroaig that I don't care for as much, and adds some nice fruit complexity.  The 10 year burnt rubber is a bit too one dimensional for me.  I prefer the mouthfeel on the Quarter Cask, but I prefer the complexity on this one.

/u/review_bot 'Laphroaig'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Laphroaig:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



Laphroaig 15yr old 86 proof

93/100



A few years ago Laphroaig discontinued the 15 year old and replaced it with the Laphroaig 18. Obviously they produced enough in recent years and can afford to do so. I like the 18 year old and I wanted to know how it compares to its preceding version so I got a sample of the Laphroaig 15:

Laphroaig 15

Islay, 43%

color: amber -1

nose: medicinal, peat, smoke, barbecue, citrus, linoleum, yew tree

taste: peat, smoke, medicinal, sea notes, salted popcorn, sulfur, banana

finish: middle long

Not very heavy or intense and rather light in comparision to the younger Laphroaigs. It's normal that the smoke and the peat diminish with age in favor of complexity, but this one is not especially complex yet, it's like it was stuck somewhere in the middle. Good, but not as special as I expected.

89/100

Laphroaig 18

Islay, 48%

nose: medicinal, tar, soft barbecue smoke, sea breeze

taste: oak, prickling on the tongue, medicinal, peat, bitter-sweet fruit drops, floral, sweet and fruity, malt (and hops?), hint of chocolate

finish: long, barbecue smoke

The barbecue smoke, peat and the medicinal notes are well balanced and not as heavy as with the 10 year old. You notice the longer cask influence, it's sweeter and fruitier and pretty complex.

93/100

Summing up I can say the Laphroaig 18 is an improvement compared to the 15 year old: It's more balanced, rounder, more complex and better in the finish. Furthermore the 18 year old has a higher ABV which goes better with an Islay malt and compared to the Laphroaig 15 it is unchillfiltered.



This is quite a rebellious opinion. A lot of the dedicated fanbase of laphroaig is still a bit miffed and sad the 15 yo has gone, and been replaced by the mellower 18 yo. 

I agree with your assessment, but this is also the order in which I tasted them. Love the 18 and then got a dram of 15 in a bar. Couldn't figure out why people prefer the 15 yo. Maybe everyone just loves whichever they get first.



Continuing my cracking open samples to brighten my day. Excited for this one. This is the old (pre-2009) bottling. Heard much about it, keen to see if it's worth all the fuss.

Aged 15 years, 43%ABV

Nose: Brine. Seafood. Campfire. Meat on the braai. Cooked fruits (apples, pineapples and and peaches specifically). Toasted wood. Marmalade. A lovely floral note. Acacia sap. Very subtle vanilla. 

Palate: Burned wood. Brine. Gentle mineral peat. Bitter lemon. Citrus rind. Alspice. Toasted almonds. White wine. 

Finish: Medium. Rubber. Bitter wood. Dry white wine. Whisps of earthy peat.

Rating: 9/10

The finish and palate suffer a bit for the chill filtration and low ABV, but it's still an excellent whisky. It's a lot less aggressive than the 10, but so much more complex. I found a lot more bourbon-fruity and maritime notes in there.



This was kind of before people got super into whisky, so not a lot of people demanded higher ABV and NCF. 

Would have bumped it to a 10/10 IMO.



I got a 2015 bottle of Laphroaig 15 that I've been loving :).

I think the 18 year is almost too smooth! I missed the Laphroaig punch in the face when I had it. That's why I like the 15 -  it's right between the 18 year and the 10 year.

Curious to know if there's any differences between the pre-2009 15 year and the 2015 15 year.



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2015

Cairdeas is Laphroaig?s annual special release. The ?15  is a cask strength version that was matured primarily in bourbon casks. Thanks to /u/stinkysauce for the sample. 

No age statement. 51.5% abv.

Nose - Sweet medicinal smokiness - a very ?Laphroaig-y? Laphroaig. Big vanilla, brown sugar, butterscotch, oceany/seaweed, smoke, black and white pepper notes. Getting some lemon in there too. I like it.

Palate - Hickory smoked pork, vanilla, butterscotch, brown sugar, with lots of lemon, pepper, and a big oceany/seaweed note showing up as it progresses...starts smoky/sweet, and picks up a peppery/citrusy bite. Medium-plus body. Doesn?t seem to be terribly refined, this one is big and brash - i.e., no wonder there?s no age statement. It?s big and brash in a good way, though, if you?re a Laphroaig fan.

Finish - Loads of black and white pepper, bbq pork again, butterscotch, brown sugar, vanilla, lemon. Smokiness gets progressively ashy here, with the smoke/citrus/pepper lingering after the sweetness fades.

I really like this one. Very much an uncompromising Laphroaig - epitomizes what drew me to Laphroaig (and Scotch) in the first place. Lacking a bit of depth (which is what?s keeping it from an even higher score), which I?m guessing is because it?s fairly young, but very enjoyable overall.

91/100

Laphroaig 15 Yr Signatory

This is a bottling from refill Sherry Butt 700358. 732 bottles came from that cask (perhaps they re-racked it? Seems like an awful lot given the Angels are a thirsty bunch?).

46% abv. Non chill filtered, natural color.

Nose - Ashy smoke, tar, honeydew melon, black/white pepper, vanilla frosting, sliced almonds, a hint of orange zest. Sherry notes are somewhat faint...maybe it was just a drier type of sherry. A fair amount of sweetness is here, though.

Palate - Surprisingly gentle at first. Honeydew melon and vanilla on entry, picking up some almond notes, ashy smoke, lemon and pepperyness as it develops. Medium body, with a slightly thick texture.

Finish - Black and white pepper, smoke, lemon, that honeydew note again, hints of almond and vanilla. Pepper, smoke, and lemon notes linger the longest.

Nice stuff - kind of a more gentle, refined Laphroaig, though theres still plenty of the trademark smokiness. Nothing here really jumps out to me, though - I think the cask used for this was past the point where it had much to impart to the spirit, though, unfortunately, beyond toning down some of the rougher edges. At least Laphroaig has a strong enough base spirit that it?s still pleasant enough to sip.

86/100

Laphroaig 15

This is what I guess will be replacing the 18 Yr, as Laphroaig?s older stocks ran out, or maybe Suntory didn?t want to hold the inventory for the extra 3 years before getting their cash, who knows. Thanks to /u/Xenonbloom for the sample.

43% abv. 15 years old.

Nose - This strikes me as a refined, gentlemanly Laphroaig, but one with Laphroaig?s signature qualities. The medicinal briny seaweedy smokiness is here, black and white pepper, vanilla, bbq sauce, and a bit of an apricot-like fruitiness.

Palate - Salty, smoky, and sweet. The briny and smoky notes hit first, backed up by some brown sugar, pepper, apricot, and vanilla. Nicely balanced and complex. The smoke has been dialed back a bit from some of the bolder Laphroaig?s I?ve had, though - what I noted on the nose regarding this being a more gentlemanly Laphroaig holds here too.

Finish - Peppery, briny, and smoky, with a nice underlying fruity sweetness. Decent duration, but again, kind of gentle for a Laphroaig.

Well, this is a well put together whisky, I think. That said, some of us like our Laphroaig?s best when they?re a big peaty punch to your palate, and this isn?t one of those. If you want a more easygoing Laphroaig, this will do nicely, though, as it is tasty and balanced. 

89/100



How does the Laph Cairdeas compare to the Laph Quarter Cask ?

Thank you



Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin

Thanks to the person who made this swap happen (they've been asked not to be mentioned) for this swap!

So I'd be remiss if I talked about some (not all) of the special editions if I didn't try mentioned and review some of the (not all) Cairdeas offerings.

But first: What the heck is Cairdeas? Well it's the word for Friendship in Gaelic. Make sense? Not really. Well, it was made for the distillery's popular friends program. And comes out during the Feis Ile festival as a special edition. It's been going on since 2008. 

So we'll start with Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin. This is from Feis Ile 2012. It's NAS. There's rumors that half of it spent 7 years in Quarter casks and the other half in refill ex-bourbon casks for 13-21 years.

So that's a little crazy. A cask strength Quarter Cask/Hybrid Laphroaig? This could end up bad.

Let's see how it tastes.

Price: N/A in Ontario anymore... (dammit should have bought it)

Abv: 51.2%

Colour: Butter

Nose: Peat, pear, lilac, nutmeg, sea air, prickly, kiwi, roasted pine nuts

Quite prickly. The floral notes in the 15 year is showing up again, yet the additional Abv. has added to it and ramps it up quite a bit. There's also a nutty note here.

So far, not shit. I'm impressed, this is nice and strong. My wife is not a fan.

Taste: Nutmeg, peat, cocoa, sugared lemon rind, cinnamon, pepper steak, peach, chocolate milk

If you don't like spices, or overtly spiced things, with an earthy mixture, you'd better walk away. Like my wife did (from the whisky, not me, I'm not single, don't PM me your boobs/dicks/boob dicks).

There's a chocolate milk note that Laphroaig comes up with after awhile. It eventually takes over here, and the other notes kinda take a back seat to it. However before that, it's tasty.

Finish: Peanut, salt air, anise, curry powder, peach cobbler, vanilla, smoke

It finishes with a lot of nutty, spicy, and sweet notes. All well built up. It's a good mixture of young, ovaries to the oak strength with some complexity to edge out the usual issues with youth.

Well, other than the fact that your frontal lobe doesn't develop until you hit 25 and thus you aren't able to calmly approach all situations without it going through your emotional center of your mind. But that more so applies to people and thankfully not whisky, luckily.

Conclusion: This is really tasty. It's a good blend of youth and age, it has some complexity to it, and I really, really wish I bought a bottle when I found it.

That said, it's not setting off memories. It's a definite buy, it's tasty, and at times it'll burn the shit out of you or send random spices mixed with sweetness that kinda doesn't work. I can't really bash it too much, I can only say that there is better.

86/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood 2013

Thanks to /u/Lord-of-the-manor for this hard to find dram.

Are you new here? If so, then you don't remember the sheer, ball gargling, house shopping love that comes from this whisky. Hell, it's still here.

And if I was more Hipster-esque, then seriously I'd be annoyed. However I'm not. just because something is popular doesn't mean it sucks or doesn't suck or etc, etc. Oog is amazing. Tobermory isn't that great (Editor's Note: To me). Two good examples of popular things I both agree and disagree with.

And if you feel that anything popular isn't for you automatically, I just have to say the following: All the cool kids are breathing.

I need to hand in my opinion. This could end up being the thing I hate.

Anyway, continuing on with the Friendship series, we have the 2013 Feis Ile offering, Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood 2013, which frankly, I'm surprised I ever received. Every trade, hunt, and generally begging, failed, until I finally received it.

Twas a good day. 

Anyway, this is a ex-Bourbon cask whisky that is finished in port pipes. And if that doesn't sell you, then check your pulse, and then realize you may not like port, and that's okay.

Abv: 51.3%

Colour: Ruby maroon walnut

Nose: Plum, BBQ chicken, mesquite, dates, strawberry, mint, mustard seed, ginger, spruce trees in spring

Wow. Lots of complexity.  Tons of fruit. Much spices.

Funny doge's aside, this nose is one of the best I've encountered in a long time. The Peat and salt air from Laphroaig have developed these intricate flavours and spices and holy shit this is good.

Taste: Licorice,  strawberry, currant, peat, black cherry, cola, Salish

Not a shitty Black cherry soda either: No, I'm talking full on, tasty, real cane sugar, costs too damn much, fuck I can't have caffeine, but I want it, Black Cherry soda.

Damn I miss pop.

I'll admit, the nose is still better than the taste, yet this is a sweet, tasty dram.

Finish: Being at the beach by the ocean, eucalyptus,  cinnamon,  nutmeg, rhubarb,  watermelon, smoke, strawberry

It's odd: I lived on an island as a kid, and my mom left eucalyptus in the front hall, so I am reminded of the smell and walking into my childhood home, yet mixed with being at the beach, and I lived nowhere near a beach nor by the ocean.

So I'm confused.

Yet this is tasty. Complex fruit, tons of smoke, and yet it retains that Laphroaig identity.

Conclusion: Well... believe the hype... wait, but I'm part of the hype now, so... uh... believe me?

Go try this yourself. It's tasty. They have taken Laphroaig, evolved the different elements (brine, peat, medicinal), added in additional flavours from the port, and balanced it all. It set off memories, and has a great depth of flavour.

And yes, I'm nitpicking saying it's not as amazing as some other whiskies I have had, however it's up there as one of the best. Buy this if you can.

89/100



It's an old SNL skit-Hans and Franz? "We're here to pump you up!"

They used to say stuff like "Believe us now and understand us later!"
You said "believe the hype... wait, but I'm part of the hype now, so... uh... believe me"

I dunno. Its a weird connection.



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014

Thanks to /u/usquebaugh_ for this dram!

So we did last year's Cairdeas, which was amazing, and one of the better "new" drams I've had in a long time, this must be better, right?

And thus why I am doing these reviews, because hard to find bottles are always a roll of the dice. You never know if something is going to be really nice (see above) or really shitty (see later albums from Metallica).

Up next, Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014. They start with first-fill ex-Bourbon casks and then finished for one year in Amontillado hogsheads.

Now you might be asking: What the fucking hell does any of that mean? Where are my pants? Why can't I juggle? Why does my kid cry at night?

Well, let me answer some of your questions.

First-fill ex-bourbon means that the cask was used for bourbon, shipped to Islay, and then used for this dram. This allows more of the vanilla and sweetness to enter into the whisky. Bourbon casks reduce over time compared to sherry casks, so this is a good thing.

Amontillado is a sherry. It's characterized as being darker than Fino and lighter than Oloroso. Sherry is a fortified wine, and in this case, it's made in Spain. Not details though, however sherry's influence on a cask is harder to diminish, so it shouldn't matter as much.

Abv: 51.4%

Colour: Dull orange

Nose: Orange rind, peat, strawberry,  sea air, sugared cranberries,  vanilla

So it looks like Orange, and smells like bitter orange, and then the sugared elements of the bourbon show up and say nothing, because elements don't communicate. Though they do balance it out.

Oh, and to answer your question, your pants are probably on your legs, or on the floor. All depends on where you work, what time it is, and if you live in a glass house.

Taste: Tequila, orange juice, prickly, ginger, chili flakes,  C-plus soda, chocolate milk

Not shitty, shooting tequila; like good, properly aged silver tequila. Which isn't the first time I've had something like that. It's way too prickly too; detracts.

And that chocolate milk has shown back up again, and taken over. It's too bad, because it was growing into an interesting orange/tequila flavour.

You can't juggle because you haven't practiced enough. As this isn't /r/juggle, I'm assuming you can't. If you can, great. Note that it only really helps if you are picking up at a ren fair. Or trying to distract your boss.

Finish: Mushroom, orange, campfire, medicine, peat, cocoa

Earth. Do you like earth? Cause it's a mouth full of ash and dirt. Dirt, dirt, orange, dirt. I don't mind earth, but this is unbalanced.

What a surprise? A peated, known to be earth whisky, mixed with an earthy spirit finished whisky.

Your kid cries out for a plethora of reasons, all detailed by people who know way more than I do. It sucks, I hope it gets better, and this is one of the hundreds of reasons I'm not having kids. Maybe a muzzle will help.

Conclusion: It was a nice idea. In theory, it should work out great. Everyone likes Laphroaig PX. So they should be trying other types of sherry.

And just look at it! It glows orange, and tastes of oranges! That's pretty cool. A nice amount of acidity to bring out the different smoky elements and add to a tequila like flavoured: On paper, I'd agree to it in a second.

That said, it just doesn't work that well. The orange is bashed to the side, and the finish is unbalanced. The nose is nice, but not great. Nice try, and I look forward to next years. Good luck next time, and I hope it turns out better in the future. 

80/100

Laphroaig PX Cask

Special thanks to /u/ourknownto for a nice sized sample of this dram. I've been looking forward to it!

And finally we have another darling of /r/scotch, recommended quite a bit, Laphroaig PX Cask. This shares quite a few similarities with the triple wood: Each of these whiskies are triple oaked, and each use both Bourbon and Quarter casks as part of it.

The main difference is the type of sherry in the final casks. Triple Wood uses Oloroso, which is darker than the Amontillado sherry (see above), and has less of a yeasty taste of fino sherries, where as Pedro Xim?nez sherry is a sweet, dark, strong-ass (technical term) dessert sherry.

So it's just one little thing, right? Well... maybe. Triple Wood may use older sherry casks. Or maybe newer. Sherry casks don't lose their taste as quickly, so that may not do much. We'll have to see.

So, as I enjoy the latest Doctor Who episode in the dark, let's see if this is my darling as well.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv:48%

Colour: Reddish-gold

Nose: Sour cherry, lemon, peat, salty, anise, clove, fizzy pop bubbles, light caramel

It's really alive. Not "I'm secretly a cannibal and am drinking blood that has electricity running through it's alive or Dusk till Dawn alive drinking, this has some balls/ovaries/whatever genitalia you want to it.

Not actual genitalia.

The PX is holding up a lot better than the Oloroso or Amontillado did. It takes the forefront, and adds that much needed spice that Laphroaig sometimes forgets.

Taste: Strawberry, ash, peat, brine, cranberry, lemon peel, cream, nutmeg

Yeah, the campfire is there, and someone put some cedar in it, so you've got smoke and ash in your throat. What else do we expect from Laphroaig?

Very creamy. And there's no chocolate milk barging in, taking over. Quite nice. Not too over the top on complexity, though nice.

Finish: Anise, black cherry, ash, club soda, basil, earth, lemon, oregano

Finishes with the same earthiness that I've come to expect from a sherried whisky, without overdoing it too much. Still has some character from before. Didn't get left out, like that one little nice kid in To Kill a Mockingbird, who defends Scout in class from the Eule boy and then never shows up again. Waste of a character, if you ask me.

Conclusion: This is very, very similar in taste, texture, and nose to Lagavulin 16. It's creamy, not too strong, has some nice dark fruit notes, and finishes with some earthniness. It's not as ballsy as Lagavulin 16, which is nice. Basically they are both very similar, and you can't go wrong with one if you like the other. Solid from start to finish, with just some moments where the taste missed the mark.

85/100

Scotch review #195-200, Islay review #47-52

Other Laphroaig reviews:

Laphroaig 10 year

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength Batch 004

Laphroaig 18 year

Laphroaig Quarter Cask

Laphroaig Battlehill 13 year



Current Average score for Whisky: 79.15

Current Standard Deviation: 8.31



This is very, very similar in taste, texture, and nose to Lagavulin 16.

Have you tried the Lagavulin DE? I would think that that would be closest to Laphroaig PX, since they are both PX-finished. Especially since you say the PX is less intense than Laga 16; the DE definitely fits that description.



Lagavulin DE is just drowned by sweetness. It ends up tasting like syrup to me. 

Laphroaig PX is, IMO, a perfect daily drinker. Enough complexity to not feel same-y, but very much a Laphroaig in all its untamed beauty. 



So I've been saving these up for awhile, as who doesn't everyone enjoy a multi-review from a verbose nerd who loves the sound of his own words?

That's what I thought, you LOVE IT.

Anyway, it's been awhile since I've had Laphroaig. And there's a reason for that. It costs a shit ton here in Canada.

Also it's hard to find in bars.

But for real, Laphroaig is a good distillery, and I'm not going to bash it, yet I'll admit it is not my favourite Islay distillery: It falls to a strong 5th place on Islay. And that's not a bad thing. When you get in fights with Olympic level fighters, 5th is still awesome, even if you don't get your name on a plaque and a shiny metal disk.

So yeah, I'm okay with the 10 year (it's pretty decent), the Quarter Cask is really tasty, and the 18 is a very nice dram. Not to mention the Battlehill 13 is another, very tasty dram. I also like that Laphroaig isn't afraid to put out a 48%. So they do some things great.

Anyway, the real question today, for my 200th review, is: Outside of the main offerings, how does Laphroaig stand up? 

Because we're always asking ourselves that about every distillery. Special, sometimes NAS editions are here to stay. They make money. They try new things. They play to our deepest desire to hunt things out, either through multiple trips and sorting, or learning everything we can, or even just the idea of tracing one across state/province/country/territory/intergalactic borders.

And some of them continue, growing past the point of special, or others become special, because they are cancelled. I've included them as well.

Let's see if Laphroaig is jumping on the bandwagon, or if they are really heartfelt in these special editions.

Region: Islay

Laphroaig Triple Wood

So I'm at Feather's. It's a week I'm taking off. Relaxing. Mostly just chilling out, enjoying myself, writing, having a dram a day. It's the midst of Fan Expo. On a Saturday. Which was nuts. I need to pick a third, last, not TOO expensive dram.

And I've been hankering quite a bit of for some unique finishes.

Well, what's better than just one finish? Why Three Finishes! That's where Laphroaig Triple Wood comes in. Also I wanted to save some money during this very consumer-centric nerd-a-thon.

But think about it: Three Finishes! Without saying what they are, or using any of your brain to remember, seriously! Three finishes! Sure, I didn't like Dalmore King Al the Third, but that's Dalmore, so are we surprised? And this isn't 16 finishes like that one (Editor note: that's sarcasm), it's just three!

Only after did I find out the three: First ex-Bourbon, selected from multiple vintages that are well suited (their words, not mine), second is Quarter Cask, and then finally a Sherry European Oak cask (Oloroso Sherry Cask). 

So... that's interesting. I typically like a Double Wood, and I like the Quarter Cask, so what could go wrong?

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 48%

Colour: Brass

Nose: Peat, red apples, lime, campfire, strawberry, caramel

So it starts out very similar to the 10 year. Given a blind tasting, I won't lie: I wouldn't have any idea this isn't the 10 year, barring some fruit notes. And faint fruit notes at that.

Like that one Aunt. You know, she's nice, she's great, knits for needy kids, but also knows the names of every single Boss fight in the first 6 Final Fantasy games, and probably is better at original Starcraft then you? Yet you don't notice until later in life, and she's cool, yet still says "That's nice" when you talk about what's wrong with the Jays starting pitcher.

Taste: Cherry, peat, tobacco, cocoa, anise, plum, sea salt, cinnamon

The sherry influence is here now. It's nice, though not really adding too much. Like my commentary between my notes.

I'm a big boy, I know.

Finish: Peat, currant, sparkling strawberry wine, cedar smoke, caramel

And now the sherry is taking over everything. It's shown up, has put down roots, and has run anything else in this whisky to a reservation, just to show up for some Casino commercials.

There's also a young element at the end that turns me off a little.

Conclusion: So I enjoy this experiment, and think it's a tiny bit better than the 10 year. That said, should I pay a premium for something that is +8% Abv. and has lots of promises? No. It's unbalanced towards the sherry cask, I can't really tell the effect, if any, the Quarter Cask did, and at the end of the day, it's just okay.

This probably should have stayed a travel exclusive, as I assume it had more balance when it was less produced.

77/100

Laphroaig 15 year

Thanks to /u/jimvarney01 for this dram!

Firefly. Family Guy. The Tick: The Animated Series. Veronica Mars. Undergrads. The Pete Holmes Show. The Arsenio Hall Show. Community. Clone High. Invader Zim. Futurama.

At some point, we've watched some show that was cancelled. And it sucked, because we liked that show.

This is an odd case for me. I like the whisky that replaced Laphroaig 15 year. I mean, that's never happened before. I sure as fuck am not watching whatever is replacing Community on NBC (I know it was picked up by Yahoo), mostly because I have no idea what it is. And I haven't really liked a lot of the cartoons since the ones that went away.

Maybe I'm just old? Well, that goes without saying. At least I have Adventure Time.

My own age aside, I don't know how I'm going to react to something that was replaced by something I like. This will be interesting.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 43%

Colour: Caramel sauce

Nose: Creme brulee, peat, rich caramel, medicinal, sea air, plum, violets

Really rich nose on this one. Also, as time goes on, there's a little bit of fruit and floral notes.

Wait, if after 15 years there are already deep, rich fruity/floral notes, why finish the triple wood in Oloroso casks? I guess for different notes, however it makes me wonder.

Taste: Peat, chocolate, raspberry, oak, basil, allspice

Good, again rich notes, with some spice and oak to balance it out. Not as crazy as some older drams, yet still nice, complex enough, and I'm enjoying it quite a bit.

No wonder it got cancelled. Does Fox own Laphroaig?

Finish: Raisins, rum cream sauce, Juicy Fruit gum, peat, bacon, brine

Almost reminds me of a rum finish. Long finish, and the peat is nicely evolved. The Brine is like that one buff guy at a weight watchers meeting, completely out of place.

Wait, does Laphroaig have rum casks? Note to self if I'm ever rich enough to buy two ex-rum casks and two casks of Laphroaig Cask Strength, this could be awesome.

Conclusion: So I've re-reviewed my review of the 18 year old. And I've compared it to what I said, after reviewing this one, with Laphroaig 15 year.

I hate to be the dissenting opinion (Editor's note: No you don't.) However I think that the 18 is an improvement of the 15 year. It ends up developing those notes more, and is more complex.

That said, I still think the 15 is a good dram. They've made a 43% dram, that is 3 years younger, taste almost as good as a +5% Abv. 18 year old dram. It's tasty. It has elements of rum, and fruit, and even Lowland floral notes. I'd say pick up a bottle, because damn, this is tasty, and goes to show you that this distillery is well worth your time. And liver space.

84/100



5th on Islay? That's a pile of crap.

Laphroaig > Kilchoman = Caol Ila > Ardbeg > Lagavulin >> Bunnahabhain >>>> Bruichladdich >? Bowmore



I put up the following in response to /u/Dworgi:

Ardbeg > Lagavulin = Kilchoman > Caol Ila > Laphroaig > Bruichladdich > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

That said, I've since gone back, and after these reviews, averaged out my scores for each.

Order is:



Now, take some of those with a grain of salt. Port Ellen, Lagavulin, and Kilchoman have only had 2 reviews each. 

Though the Kilchoman should be getting a boost soon..



See, I tend to go:

Ardbeg > Lagavulin = Kilchoman > Caol Ila > Laphroaig > Bruichladdich > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

EDIT: Turns out, based on my reviews, it goes:

Port Ellen > Lagavulin > Ardbeg > Bruichladdich > Laphroaig > Kilchoman > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

Granted, that could change after I do my Kilchoman quad review.



My disagreement stems from a few factors:

Ardbeg is so unreliable. Alligator was amazing, Ardbog/Auriverdes/Galileo were meh. Uigeadail is great, Corryvreckan is meh. Ardbeg 10 is passable. And then there's Blah-sda. And no IBs unless you have an extra grand to spend.

Lagavulin 16 isn't my thing, Distiller's Edition is downright offensively bland. Lagavulin 12 is great some years, but rubbish other years. There is nothing else unless you have $5,000 to spare. 

Laphroaig is almost rock solid quality. Every Cairdeas I've tried has been at the very least good. Triple Wood is disappointing, QC isn't my thing, QA is a bit bland. But PX, 10, 15, 18 and 10 CS are all great. And their special releases (25, 1989) tend to be pretty good bang for the buck. And there's IBs as well, which gives you an almost infinite amount of ways to spend money on Laphroaig!

Caol Ila is extremely reliable. I like the 12 and 18, DE is a bit boring, CS is great but overpriced. The rest is IBs, which I uniformly think are great, but never truly fall in love with the way I love Laphroaig, but that's personal taste.

The rest is whatever, but Bruichladdich at least tastes like vomit and therefore will never rate highly in my book.



Good points all around, and I appreciate the sentiment. My reasons I differ:

I think we differ in the Ardbeg's we like (though agree on some special editions). I like Corvy and 10 a lot more than you did, if I remember right. We agree on Blah-sda, I think I liked Ardbog more than you, and Galileo eventually grew on me. Auriverdes was a let down. On the other hand, I have had the IBs from Ardbeg, and the 1977, and a Supernova, so that ups my view on them. Price doesn't factor into my scores, so Ardbeg does better.

I can see that. Lagavulin in general gets a higher score because I've only reviewed 2 of them, as I've avoided the DE because of rough scores.

See, I'm not a big fan of the 10 year for Laphroaig. Mix that with the low score from Triple wood, and it's getting pulled down. That said, like I said at the start: Being 5th isn't a bad thing when you're competing. If we remove Port Ellen for being defunct and remove Lagavulin for being low in reviews, then it's a Bronze. Solid bronze for me. Also I've only had one IB, and while I like it, I feel like the QC just takes the cake for me.

I'm iffy on Caol Ila. The Moch wasn't my favourite, the CS is amazing, the DE I loved, and the 12 is, as you say, solid. Need to try more of them.

Well now, let's not just say "Whatever". Sure, Bowmore is pretty useless. Bruichladdich has so many different types that it's hard to nail them down. I've had ones I love and ones that are useless. Bunnahabhain is quality, even if I don't really like the 12 year. I can't just shove it aside. Especially given the IBs I've had from them. Kilchoman... seriously? Whatever? I mean, Dude! If I look back at your reviews for Kilchoman, I'll find some heavy hitters. And yeah, it's defunct, but Port Ellen still counts, and in a big way. 



Kilchoman was whatever because I think we agree on them. If the Port Cask lives up to the hype, they'll be inching towards second place. 

Port Ellen I don't count because it's really hard to get a grasp of what they're like because of price. I'll buy one at some point, but more to own one than anything else. 

Laddie, never been impressed, and their marketing puts me off. Probably some good peated stuff around, but I blended my Port Charlotte bottle because I didn't want to drink it. 

Bunna is all vegetal and funky. Not terrible, but that note really drags them down. 

Ardbeg, well, I've tried all but the single casks, including some of the dumpies. Had Still Young and Supernova too. I think I've done all I can with Ardbeg. I'll continue to buy Oog and annuals, but I can't place them too high based on those, especially since it's been a long time since they had a hit. 



Well, I agree with TOM that the 18 is better than the 15. That being said:

No.



You should always remember:

if I'm ever rich enough to buy two ex-rum casks and two casks of Laphroaig Cask Strength, this could be awesome.