This is a review of Laphroaig Select bottled at 40%. Thanks to the Toronto Whisky Society for providing this sample for this review. This one is from a mix of Quarter Cask, PX Cask and Triple Wood (European Oak casks).

?

N: Rubber, ash, vanilla, peat, pine needles, slightly fruity

?

P: Vanilla, rubber, herbal, salty, oak, nutmeg

?

F: Medium. Ash, smoke, vanilla, and some pepper

?

Overall: Recognizably Laphroaig but is lacking the punch that I love when I think of Laphroaig. The mouthfeel is thin and while not the shortest the finish again is lacking when compared to other Laphroaigs. Also other than a tiny amount of fruit on the nose I really wasn't able to detect much PX influence in this one. Not a bad entry level peated offering but was hard for me to really like it when I know they can do a lot better in my opinion.  

?

Score: 78



Whiskey Network Review #62  r/Scotch Review #31

Price: Sample from u/Achosid

Appearance: Pale Gold

Nose: Peat, seaweed, sherry, baking spice, very light for Laphroaig, no burning hospital dumpster that I look forward to.

Taste: Peat smoke, not as medicinal as I would expect, more campfire ash, brine, citrus peel, dry white wine, really not much to go on, way out of line in what I look for in a Laphroaig, more of a one trick pony

Finish: Smoke

Notes: USE ALL THE CASKS!!!! So I just did a review of An Cuan M?r which I really enjoyed, I made the comment that I haven't had a bad Laphroaig yet and was told that was because I haven't tried Select, so here we are. First of all it?s a bit thin and a little watery. I wouldn't have guessed this was Laphroaig, the funk that I love is absent, where is the burning bandaids, the masking tape, copper penny that I want. Laphroaig is my favorite distillery and I tend to rate their products a notch or two over what most people give them because the flavor profile is unlike any other and I love it. I will say that this is the worst expression of theirs that I have tried?but I don't think its bad, its sort of like a lot of other disappointing entry level expressions that are watered down too much. I won't buy a bottle of this, but I would drink it again if my other options were things such as Glenmorangie Original or JW Black. I looked up the price, looks likes it goes for around $40, I would say that is a fair price.

Something similar but better: All other Laphroaigs I have tried

Something similar but worse: JW Black

Rating: 4

10  Desert island bottle

9   Personal favorite

8   I would like to keep a bottle of this open at all times

7   Good enough that I would buy another bottle at MSRP

6   Above average, could drink daily, stock up when on sale

5   Average\Run of the mill

4   Drinkable, but not my preference

3   I wouldn?t choose to drink this.

2   Just gulp it and get it over with

1   Couldn?t finish it

*Edit, changing rating from 5 to 4, the more I think about it, its just too watery, still I wouldn't call it bad.



Laphroaig Select

Thanks to /u/Devoz and whomever in the beverage world was willing to arrange a bottle of this for the Toronto Whisky Society to review. 

Nose:  Peat, smoke, leather, vanilla, honey, brine, white wine, green pepper, salt, freshly cracked black peppercorn.

Palate:  Subdued peat, smoke, caramel, vanilla bean, honey, dark roast coffee, chocolate, envelope glue, sea weed.

Finish:  Molasses,tar, smoke, peat, earth, bog, caramel, honey, chocolate, salt, sweet corn.

The above notes might come across as description of the typical Laphroaig profile but let me say that the coffee, caramel, and chocolate notes are particularly strong on this.  This tastes surprisingly mellow, sweet, and dare I say somewhat old despite it being an entry level, 40%, NAS Laphroaig.  Not exclusively old, but rounded out with older whisky or miraculous sherry casks.

Not the heavenly abrasive beast that we see with the Quarter Cask but surprisingly gentle, rich, and approachable.  This is what you use to introduce people to Laphroaig who are afraid of burning hospitals.

85/100

Laphroaig Triple Wood

48%, aged in ex-bourbon, then something else, then finished in Oloroso.

Nose:  Peat, smoke, marmite, salt, seaweed, grapes, red wine.  

Palate:  Peat, earth, mussels, sweet wine, brown sugar, vanilla with cream, corn syrup.

Finish: Brown sugar, vanilla, earth, brine, meat, bacon, salt, tobacco, mushrooms, white sugar. grape flavoured chewing gum.

A noble ABV, but the strong sherry sweetness feels at odds with the rest of the experience to me.  I don?t dislike this by any means, but it makes me wish I had a Quarter Cask on hand?  without the sweet sherry elements.

84/100

Other Laphroaig Reviews:

Laphroaig 10 - 86/100

Laphroaig PX Cask - 90/100

Laphroaig QA Cask - 81/100

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength Batch 4 - 91/100

Laphroaig 13 Battlehill - 88/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Origins - 88/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2013 Portwood - 89/100

Laphroaig 18 - 90/100

Laphroaig 20 SMWS 29.167 Wowf - 90/100

Laphroaig Quarter Cask - 89/100



Recently the lads at Laphroaig got the idea to take some traditional Laphroaig juice, which is aged in ex-bourbon barrels and give it an additional or "final" maturation in brand new American Oak barrels. They then vatted it with some of their Quarter Cask, PX Cask and Triple Wood whisky at varying levels to creat 6 different combinations. Those 6 combinations then went out to some of the Friend's Of Laphroaig who voted for their favorite vatting. That winning mix is what's in this bottle.

Natural Color

ABV: 40%

Age: NAS

Price: $40-$45

Distiller: D. Johnston & Co. (Laphroaig)

Eye: 
Straw

Nose:
Honey, malt, caramel and a noticeably more delicate peat than is traditionally in a glass of Laphroaig. Mix in some notes of vanilla, pear heavy orchard fruit, Scotch spice and an ambiguous sweetness that threads through the whole nose and you end up with a rather a-typical Laphroaig aroma. The medicinal and Iodine notes are not very apparent and it comes across a bit light.

Taste:
Peat moves up and brings along toasted nuts and salted caramel. Malt, vanilla, honey and wood are close behind with some orchard fruit bringing up the rear. The more acrid and medicinal notes are present on the palate, but come across as faint hints that fade in and out.

Balance, Body & Feel:
A good balance of light flavors and aromas that pair well with the medium body and relaxed texture.

Finish:
Peat, honey, vanilla, orchard fruit, graham, wood and a hint of Novocain settle in for long slow fade.

Score:
88/100

Overall:

This is a dram that has received some visceral hate online recently and I can honestly say I don't think it deserves it. To me the problem stems from it carrying the Laphroaig label. If it were released under a different name, like Finlaggan Select, I think a lot of people would be singing a different tune. However, because it's Laphroaig and it isn't the punch in the face we're all used to people have gotten upset and trashed what is actually a decent whisky that can be described as delicate and nuanced, which are traditionally not words used to describe Laphroaig and I think that's what's tripping most folks up. Not that it's a bad whisky, because it's not, but that it?s not a traditional Laphroaig.

I'm putting my stake in the ground and saying that I like the Laphroaig Select. Yes it's lighter in flavor, aroma and body than their signature 10, but it also has some great notes that aren't readily found in punchier 10 and 10 CS that I really appreciate. In fact my only real complaint is the proof. I wish they had release it at least at 86 proof like the 10 year because it feels like the added water might have cut a richness that could have came from vatting all of these whiskies together and an even higher proof (at least 92, but cask-strength would be nice too) could have let the unique qualities of each shine a bit more. 



This is aged in ex-bourbon barrels and then finished in brand new American Oak barrels. It is then vatted with some of their Quarter Cask, PX Cask and Triple Wood to make some kind of weird barrel blend.  Bottled at 40% ABV.

?

Nose: Peat, smoke, vanilla, rubber, medicine, vanilla

Palate: Somewhat thin, similar in texture to the 10 year.  But the flavor profile is very different.  Tapioca pudding.  Lemons.  Vanilla, some peat, quite a bit of saltiness.  Some of that medicinal note as well.

Finish: Medium short finish.  Very medicinal.  Some peat smoke as well.  Burnt plastic.

Score: 83/100

Interesting indeed.  Its very unlike most Laphroaig aside from the medicinal and rubber notes.  Much lighter and more nuanced.  Not the punch in the mouth you expect with Laphroaig whatsoever.  I like it for what it is.  But still not blowing me away or anything.

?

Older Laphroaig Reviews:



My question is: why would anyone buy this, when the 10 is better? Everywhere I've seen the Select it's priced higher than the 10. For a few bucks more the QC is even better than the 10. 

I saw a guy trying to figure out which kind of Laphroaig to get for a gift for someone he said was a fan of peated scotch. I suggested the 10 yo as a good value. He then chose the Select, and walked off to buy it. I think he was influenced by the meaning of the word "select", and ignored my suggestion because I wasn't wearing a suit and a tie. What they say, you can lead a horse to water.......



Laphroaig Select

(NAS, 40%, combination of casks)

?

A combination of Oloroso sherry butts, virgin American white oak, PX seasoned hogsheads, Quarter Casks and first fill ex-bourbon casks were used in the making of this whisky. 6 flavour combinations were created, sent to some Friends of Laphroaig and this was voted as the favorite.

Thanks to u/Devoz, the Toronto Whisky Society and whoever provided the bottle for this sample!

?

Nose: Rubber, ash, leather, mesquite chips, lime, brine

Taste: Ash, seaweed, earth, rubber, mint, nutmeg, caramel, black tea

Finish: Ash, brine, anise, lime

?

Huge whiff of new rubber to start things off. Tires, inner tubes, hoses? the whole lot. Some damp ashy and earthen notes beneath that. With time, some progression? hints of savoury mesquite bbq and citrus emerge, but the rubber still lingers in the background. More damp ashy and earthen notes on the taste, now with a hint of cooling herbal spice and something vegetal. A tiny bit of sweetness leads into the finish. The texture is thin and watery. The finish starts off ashy and slightly salty, but partway through gains some faint citrus and licorice-like notes.

A fairly anemic and one dimensional experience? heavy on the rubber and brackish water. It feels in need of something to provide a counterbalance. On the bright side, the peated notes (minus the overt rubber) do resemble the core Laphroaig notes that I?m used to? just muted and without the brightly sweet and citrus notes in harmony that I?ve come to expect. Perhaps could work as a serviceable candidate for an intro to Islay whiskies, though I would still like to see some better balance first. Otherwise a lacklustre one that doesn?t need to exist, especially at a roughly similar price point within ~$12 (locally) of QC, 10 and Triple Wood. In the end, this left me craving a proper pour of Laphroaig to restore balance to the universe.  

?

72/100



Review 160: Laphroaig Select Review

So currently I have reviewed 9 cask strength single cask releases from Laphroaig, along with the Laphroaig 25yr (2011) and 2016 Cairdeas for official bottlings from the distillery. 

Last week I was sent a sample of Laphroaig Select to review as part of Toronto Whisky Society, this will be a slight contrast from the older/higher proof Laphroaig releases I have tried. 

Nose: Peat,  vanilla, rubber, ash, honey. Not much of the PX influence on the nose. 

Palate: Balanced. Peat, vanilla, honey, salt, caramel, earthy, hint of medicinal. Light mouthfeel. 

Finish: Ash, peat, vanilla, honey, Short to medium. Tobacco, oak and pepper.

Score: 81 

Overall this is a solid entry level Islay scotch. I personally prefer the Laphroaig Quarter Cask more, with the additional oak influence. But this is a nice blend of sweetness and peat. Would have loved to see this at a higher alcohol content to add some additional kick.   



I don't know if you've tasted Cardhu 12 yet and liked it, but it wasn't for me, it really still seemed rather young. The cragganmore 12 i had after that felt so much more smooth and mature.

So if you don't already have a preference for Cardhu, I would definitely go for the frog Select here 



Before I was into whisky, this Malt is what got me into it. I had tried unpeated Speyside whiskies and didn't like them. But for some reason I liked this, which was strange as I was told Laphroaig was for more advanced whisky palates. 

I think there may be something wrong with this assumption. I find that all of my millennial mates like peated whisky early on, whereas it seems the older generations think it's only for more advanced drinkers. 

My theory is that our generation is used to smoke and spices in our food as we have much more global diets than our parents. So it's the strong alcoholic whisky taste that takes a while to get used to, but we are already used to the smoke/spice side of it.

I think this is probably opposite for the older generation. Of course, this is an assumption and there will be exceptions. Has anyone else made the same observation?



Hi Scotchit! One of my favorite distilleries is quite into NAS now, and instead of giving an age statement they are mixing lots of different casks into their new expressions. Decide for yourself if that's a good thing, maybe my tasting notes can give you some hints:

Laphroaig Select

Islay, 40%

Aged in a combination of Oloroso Sherry butts, American white oak, PX hogsheads, quarter casks and first fill Bourbon casks.

color: gold

nose: peat smoke, medicinal, cocoa powder, lime, honey, vanilla, artificial sweetener

taste: ash, black tea, roasted peanuts, vanilla, honey, milk chocolate

finish: short

As expected not great, but not bad either. Almost seems as if the different casks are neutralizing each other.

78/100

Laphroaig Lore

Islay, 48%

Non chill-filtered. Matured in quarter casks, sherry casks and refill bourbon casks.

color: gold

nose: peat smoke, medicinal, beach, burnt licorice, dark chocolate, marzipan, pepper, chestnuts, machine room

taste: ash, rock, lemon, peat smoke, salt, dry apples, bell pepper, ginger, yew tree, medicinal, cucumber, chicory

finish: hint of chili, bell pepper, ginger, hint of pineapple, aniseed, licorice

Rich nose. Ashy arrival and a medicinal development. Not the longest finish. Dangerously drinkable.

86/100

Both not bad, but way not as great as the standard 10 yo, or the CS. It's good to have some variations, but with Laphroaig it's enough now imo. Recently a Four Oak popped up with 40%... Pfft..



Thanks.

Some of them, look in the archives. Cheers.



Laphroaig's PR reached out to the Toronto Whisky Society for their #OpinionsWelcome campaign and asked if we were interested in reviewing the Laphroaig Select. It?s a vatting of QC, PX cask and triplewood. Laphroaig got the Friends of Laphroaig to choose the blend they liked best which led to this bottling. TYpically my expectations for new NAS expressions are quite low, and especially when it's bottled at 40%. Laphroaig does better at higher strength and the multiple casks types could lead to a muddled mess.  Review results will be unaffected by receiving free samples. let's see how it does.

Nose: sweet peat smoke, light iodine, apple, citrus, anise, oak, spices, pears, bbq sauce. Definitely lighter on the peat and smoke than quarter cask or the 10 year. 

Palate: light peat, burnt popcorn, montreal smoked meat, smoke, honey, faint fruitiness, vanilla, oak, light medicinal notes, fairly thin bodied. 

Finish: smoke, much stronger iodine/bandaids, earthy peat, bbq meat, smoked honey, oak

Score: 85/100

This is a strange one to score. It's a pleasant, decently complex dram, that exceeds my (admittedly low) expectations. The peat is lighter than most Laphroaig expressions, and the light sweet notes from the sherry casks show up but only for a quick visit. The different casks all seem to compete with each other and the result is fairly balanced. it would benefit greatly from being bottled at 46-48%.  I'm almost tempted to buy a bottle of this now, but then I remember that Quarter Cask is available for the same price in Ontario and that puts the temptation to bed. 



haha that's weird! 

here's a re-upload of it: http://imgur.com/cCi8QB5.jpg



Good conversation is a beautiful thing. That's why it's amazing to come to the UK, as I get to have amazing conversation with my friends.

It's also nice to have a good conversation with a bartender. Bartenders who want to make interesting drinks, who want to pick out great things, and want something other than just another bottle of beer are great. And they get good tips.

Anyway, the Bartender was actually happy to grab an interesting whisky out from their whisky cabinet. Which was awesome, because I've never tried Laphroaig Select, and thus I did.

Laphroaig Select is aged in a combination of Oloroso sherry butts, American white oak, Pedro Ximenez casks, quarter casks and first fill bourbon casks. Which seems like a little much. Kinda like talking with someone for too long.

None the less, it's an interesting idea, and I like Laphroaig, so let's see how it tastes.

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Islay

Abv: 40%

Colour: Light yellow

Nose: Pear, Mesquite smoke, currant, lemon peel, basil, light chocolate

Interesting mix of notes here. Actually smells exactly mole sauce or smoked mesquite.

A lot going on though. I wouldn't have guessed there was any sherry in this mixture, truth be told.

Taste: Earthy, cocoa, marshmallow, herbal, mustard seed

Ah, here's the sherry influence. I think. Or maybe it's some other influence. Maybe some virgin oak. I really don't know. It's like being in a loud club and trying to argue Socrates in 4 different languages.

Doesn't taste like a Laphroaig. It's nice, but not really like a Laphroaig.

Finish: Pepper, anise, lime, smoke, cumin

Simple yet strong finish. Nothing but peat influence at the end. All that other cask influence is gone, like a fart in a whirlwind.

Conclusion: Let's get down to it: If you order this whisky expecting a Laphroaig, you aren't getting one. You're getting a different beast all together.

And that really plays to expectations. It's lower Abv. than other Laphroaigs, which isn't helping. The nose and taste aren't really peatty, and more like a peated Highland. I enjoyed this, because I'm fine with a whisky not being like a Laphroaig.

You may not. I liked this. The low Abv. caused a shorter finish and missed out on some of flavours they worked on, which is too bad. Still nice though.

80/100

Scotch review #275, Islay #61, Whisky Network review #411

Laphroaig 10

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength (Batch 004)

Laphroaig 15 year

Laphroaig 18

Laphroaig Battlehill 13 year

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014

Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin

Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood 2013

Laphroaig PX Cask

Laphroaig Quarter Cask

Laphroaig Triple Wood



My Current Whisky Network Average = 78.00   

Standard Deviation  =10.30

Skewness = -2.73183

Kurtosis = 11.15379

Median =    80

IQR =   9