Laphroaig An Cuan Mor

Islay

September 7, 2015

84 CAD @ Toronto Pearson Duty Free (700 ml)

Colour - Caramel

Nose - Heavy peat and charred wood, sweet oak, dried apricots and peaches that add a nice and sweet touch, dried and sun-kissed seaweed, hints of spices I can't identify, yummy vanilla and caramel. A very interesting nose on this one - every time I come back I get something different, and not just the tiny details but the big notes too. I can come to it and get the sweet vanilla and oak predominating, take my nose away, and come back to peat and seaweed!

Taste - Peat, iodine, spicy pepper, some kind of yeasty starch?, a bit of mint, oak tree bark, ash, dried fruit.

Finish - Peat up front, smoke coming out my ears, pepper pushes through and spices up the inside of my cheeks then finally a tar-like note lingers on the tongue.

Rating - 9/10

Comments - An interesting duty free bottling from Laphroaig. I really enjoyed it, about on par with the Quarter Cask (which is $11 CAD less in Ontario). I don't think it's quite as "campfire" as the Quarter Cask, but has some nice smokey notes that are supplemented by dried fruits and seaweed. I really enjoy the nose of this whisky as I've never had one that's so dynamic not just in the details but the big picture as well.



I decided to try every OB Laphroaig I could get my hands on and do a massive Frog review. I've also been given authority by John Campbell to decide which bottles live and die, so I will be passing judgment on each bottle and deciding whether it deserves to exist in the lineup.

Laphroaig 10
40% ABV  

Nose: Pure peat smoke, medicinal, vanilla, tar, iodine, TCP, Laphroaig!  

Taste: Peat smoke, salt, lemon, sweet, too much American oak IMO but we're not at emergency levels yet, coastal.   

Finish: Short, peaty and medicinal.  

Score: 84  

Verdict: I can't kill the standard 10yo, but lets bump it up to at least 43-46% so it can compete with Ardbeg 10.  

Laphroaig 10CS 007
56.3% ABV  

Nose: Powerful, peat smoke, almonds, grapefruit, more smoke, soot, ash, seaweed, engine oil, brine, kippery, old boat.  

Taste: Smoke, ash, seaweed, sour unripe mango, smoked fish, soot.  

Finish: Long, smoke and ash, less sweetness than it's lower proof friends.

Score: 90, some of the older unnumbered batches are better, some much better. The more recent batches have their slight differences but are all of similar quality. I'm just going to do this one review for all of them because this is already going to be too long.   

Verdict: A classic. You can't get rid of this.  

Laphroaig Quarter Cask
48% ABV  

Nose: A more medicinal smoke than in the 10, seaweed, toffee, rubber, sweet, herbal, banana, vanilla.  

Taste: Smoke, lemons, brine, ash, olives, iodine, pear, charred meat, oak spice(REEEE get out).   

Finish: Longer, spicy and herbal, more oak.  

Score: 85  

Verdict: More oaky than I'd like but that's kind of it's thing, and it's still unmistakably Laphroaig. Let's keep this one.  

Laphroaig Triple Wood
48% ABV  

Nose: More medicinal again, subdued smoke, iodine, toffee, camphor, lapsang souchong, damp earth.  

Taste: Sweet, buttery, citrus, spice, liquorice.   

Finish: Long, sweet.  

Score: 85  

Verdict: Very sweet but still unmistakably Laphroaig. It lives.  

Laphroaig Select
40% ABV  

Nose: Lapsang Souchong that was only brewed for about 7 seconds, sawdust, mint, someone pouring real Laphroaig in the next room  

Taste: Same as the nose but with more spice.  

Finish: There's not.  

Score: 70 (Passing score because it's not unpleasant, there's just nothing there.)  

Verdict: Death by drowning.  

Laphroaig QA
40% ABV  

Nose: Fresh tea biscuits while that guy in the other room is still pouring real Laphroaig, more smoke than Select, spice.  

Taste: Apple, vanilla, weak tea, very slight brine  

Finish: Very short, apples.  

Score: 75  

Verdict: Get rid of it. It's a waste.  

Laphroaig Brodir 002
48% ABV  

Nose: Strawberries, raspberries, berries, berries, berries.  

Taste: Fruit salad, berries, liquid smoke, no medicinal Laphroaiginess, some spices I can't name.   

Finish: Medium-long, is smoked jam a thing?  

Score: 76  

Verdict: Not empty like the last couple but not very Laphroaigy. Stop making it.  

Laphroaig PX
48% ABV  

Nose: Seaweed, tar, tires, rum?, liquorice, slight cough syrup but less medicinal than the purer Frogs  

Taste: Rum & raisins, citrus, tobacco, liquorice, candied cherry, smoke.  

Finish: Medium-long, sweet, mushrooms  

Score: 83  

Verdict: I could go either way, but I'm leaning towards nixing it. What niche is it filling?  

Laphroaig An Cuan Mor
48% ABV  

Nose:  Oak, but also classic Laphroaig medicinal smoke, kelp, wet earth, soot.

Taste: Oak, candied ginger, lemongrass, peat, very medicinal, citrus, damp earth again.   

Finish: Long, sweet peat, more candied ginger.  

Score: 87  

Verdict: Very noticable oak influence which I usually hate. But this is very good. Let's kill PX and keep this as the obligatory Travel Exclooosive?.  

Laphroaig 15 200th Anniversary
43% ABV  

Nose: Is this Rockley Still rum? Very Medicinal, camphor, seaweed, mango, pure powerful peat smoke despite the low proof, fish market, tropical fruit like you get in very old Laphroaig, the sea, wet stone, car exhaust, no oak notes at all. Would "Bangkok after a rain" be too pretentious of a tasting note? Yeah, let's not say that. What would that be though? Ozone? Wet concrete?  

Taste: More medicinal than smoky, but plenty of both, just like Laphroaig should be, pomelo, tropical fruit, liquorice, oysters, brine.  

Finish: Very long considering the proof, brine and smoke.  

Score: 91  

Verdict: Stop making all that stupid shit like Four Oak and start bottling this at cask strength! What are you thinking, Laphroaig?  

Laphroaig 18
48% ABV  

Nose: Oak & vanilla(noooo!), but then it gets better, smoke, kelp, compost, pu erh tea, wet earth, was this aged underground? Charred meat, more pu erh(I did a rhyme). 

Taste: Oak, brine, cured meat, lapsang souchong, overripe mango, kippery.  

Finish: long, tropical fruit and subdued smoke.  

Score: 87  

Verdict: I like it, I prefer the 15 but if either of them came back I'd be happy. Someone recently posted that they find most older Laphroaig IBs to be superior to the OB 18. I tend to agree.  

Laphroaig Lore
48% ABV  

Nose: Weak smoke, vanilla, citrus, we have select premium.  

Taste: Vanilla, soot, more smoke than the nose, a little seawater.  

Finish: Medium-long, smoke, ash, lemon, oak.

Score: 78  

Verdict: They replaced the 15 and 18 with this. Never forget. Never forgive.  

Laphroaig Four Oak
40% ABV  

Nose: The weak lapsang souchong from Select is back with the spice from the QA, oak, more oak, even more oak, yet more oak, that's four oaks!  

Taste: Weak, soot, distinct tap water notes, thin.  

Finish: There's not.  

Score: 71  

Verdict: Please stop this, Laphroaig. I love you but you need to stop.  

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2013 Portwood
51.3% ABV  

Nose: Sweet peat, orange liqueur, antiseptic, seaweed, soap?, berries, sweet pork.  

Taste: Sweet smoke, oranges again, ash, jam, brine, soap again.  

Finish: Long, very fruity, raspberries.  

Score: 83     

Verdict: It's a one time release so it's already dead.  

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014 Amontillado
51.4% ABV  

Nose: Nutty sherry, very rich, medicinal, orange, slight rubber, ginger, mineral, kelp.  

Taste: Salty, orange again, walnut, cacao, very clear influence from the Amontillado.  

Finish: Medium-long, Smoked orange, walnut.  

Score: 89  

Verdict: NA  

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2015 Anniversary
51.5% ABV  

Nose: Fishy, seaweed, brine, medicinal, mineral.  

Taste: Mineral, peppery, iodine, seaweed, ash, medicinal.  

Finish: Long, fermented fish/crab, mineral.  

Score: 89  

Verdict: NA  

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2016 Madeira
51.6% ABV  

Nose: Ashy red fruit, iodine, grape jam, rubber, bitter marmalade, not too sweet, medicinal peat(I've done a rhyme again).  

Taste: Coastal, ash, olives, dried fruit, pepper, iodine, meaty smoke.  

Finish: Medium-long, ashy, smoky, briny.  

Score: 85  

Verdict: NA



Nice review. Glad to see someone else who liked the 2014 Cairdeas as much as I did (the 2013 usually gets more love).

Out of interest, any idea what batch you had of Brodir? I've tried the more recent one, batch 002, and it's pretty weak, but apparently batch 001 was much better.



Yea, the 2014 is under appreciated.

I had batch 002.



Thank you for the comprehensive analysis of the various Laphroaig expressions. Last time I checked, the 10 year old was bottled at 40% abv for England, and 43% abv for the US. So above recommendation is already taken care of, provided you buy your 10 yo in the US. I had some 40% abv 10 year old in England, and found it to be considerably lacking in character and punch, while the 43% that we get here is a standard bearer. Strange what a difference a small adjustment can make.

I have found the various batches of the 10 year old cask strength to be quite different from each other, but, as they're all cask strength, they're all good, some better than others, imo. The batch 008, for example, has an incredibly long finish. 

Yes, get rid of the QA, Select, Lore, and four wood. However, I disagree about the choice between the An Caun Mor and the PX. I love the PX, particularly because it's so different from the other expressions, and variety is the spice of life, they say. I enjoyed the An Caun Mor, as well, so I'd say let's keep both of them. But especially the PX! If asked for my opinion, I would reverse the ratings you gave. I guess that's why they make chocolate and vanilla.

Your take on the Cairdeas is slightly different from other reviewers, and from my own experience. I've found most people agree that 2013>2016>2015>2014. However I didn't get a chance to sample the 2013, so I'm only going on what others have said about it. I've heard, variously, that the 2013 Cairdeas is similar to, but better than the Brodir, so if you didn't like either of these, your comments make a lot of sense. I have a bottle of Brodir here, and one of these days I'm going to open it to see if it's something that I'd like to bring back on my next trip abroad. 

So I guess we're all looking forward to trying the next Cairdeas release which is Cask Strength and partially quarter cask matured. If it's as good as the initial reviews from those lucky enough to have tried it from the distillery, perhaps it will become the new standard Laphroaig expression. One can hope.



Thanks for the info about the proof differences with the regular 10. The sample I used for my notes was from the Euro market and it's been so long since I've purchased the regular 10 here in the US that I'd forgotten.

Yes, like I said I was torn on the PX. I suppose I can let it live. It is unique and plenty of people seem to enjoy it.

The Portwood Cairdeas seems to get a disproportionate amount of praise here on Scotchit, but isn't always as loved elsewhere. It scored third highest out of the four on whiskybase(though they're all very close), and Serge at whiskyfun(who has similar taste to me when it comes to oak influence) rated it in the 70s, but he seems to dislike port finishes even more than I do so take that with a grain of salt.

I've bottled 2oz each of the last four Cairdeas releases so that I can do a comparison when I get my hands on the 2017. If you're interested I'll send you whatever I have left of the Portwood after I take my notes. It'll probably only be about an ounce but I've seen you posting about wanting to try it for a while now and I don't mind gifting whatever I have left.



I don't think I've ever tried batch 005. That would be a fine trade.

I don't know when the new Cairdeas is going to be available here but I'll make a note and stick it with my samples so I don't forget.



I just realized I forgot the 1815.

This all feels incomplete now. Anyone have a bottle of that and willing to do a swap?

If not, I bet it's crap.

Made-up Verdict: Kill it.

I've become a tyrant.



I never thought I

Would be so excited by

The words "Frog Orgy"

?

????????????????? - Animactus

I'm a bot made by /u/Eight1911. I detect haiku.



Thank you Vaguswarrior for voting on haikubot-1911.  

This bot wants to find the best and worst bots on Reddit. You can view results here.  

Even if I don't reply to your comment, I'm still listening for votes. Check the webpage to see if your vote registered!



Thanks for not killing the Triple Wood!! 

Side note, I believe it's Lapsang Souchong. Love that you include it (and pu erh tea) in your reviews, though.



You are correct.

Spelling error fixed, thank you.



The PX is growing on me, or maybe I ascribe too much quality to it because I can't get it anywhere but Duty Free. Then again, I own a bottle of Brodir, which is also a travel exclusive, and it's really not shaped up to be much, especially with its high price. It's...too thin and red-tasting somehow. Someone on this sub mentioned it tasted like someone added raspberry powder to the standard 10. Not far off. I tried a seemingly better dram on Islay that I swear tasted only a notch below Kilchoman's awesome Feis Ile 2017.  Maybe I need to drink half the bottle and let it sit on the shelf for a while, like the bottle I first drank from. But I'd probably buy a couple more bottles of the PX cask on the next opportunity.  

Either way, Laphroaig absolutely needs to reel it in and focus on what they are good at, and I agree with most of the verdicts. Leave most of the NAS experimentation to Ardbeg, honestly. 

While on the Distiller's Wares tour, I bottled a 12 year cask strength that spent 5 years in ex-bourbon and the last 7 in double Pedro Ximenez casks. Planning on using that for my first review here. Maybe alongside the one my wife bottled...a 14 year double bourbon CS. I would absolutely buy either as one of their "novelty" releases. 



Laphroaig, An Cuan Mor, 48 %, Islay, NCF, natural colour?

Ah the joys of international travel: travel retail exclusive scotch. This one has been matured in first fill ex-bourbon close to the ocean in the warehouse, and then some time in European oak. Blah blah marketing bs. 

Nose: yep, it?s laphroaig! Band aid, tar, smoke, ash, dry like hot sand. Peppery stewed stone fruit in the background. Honey sweetness is there, same as a bit more spice, maybe clove. A tad yeasty/cheesey. Pretty equal between band aid and ash/smoke. Fruit intensifies with time in the glass. 

Colour: look at the pictrue

Body: somewhere between oily and silky 

Palate: smooth, quite restrained, a little sweet but in a cakey biscuit type of way, typical big yummy laphroaig 10 notes but richer and more intense and heaps spicier, perhaps bordering on Talisker 10. Very peppery too. Fruit is here, but I really had to look hard. Probably a constant dried fruit flavour in the background too.

Finish: smooth, warming, a bit of vanilla and oak, a bit dry, strong ash at the end like the 10 but also a bit more band aid/seaweed and very spicy. Chilli catch.

Essentially a spicier and richer Laphroaig 10 and better in every other way. Laphroaig 10 is very good but suffers from chill filtration and low abv. This fixes that. There?s an epic spicy chilli catch going on, which I am loving so much as it?s hard to find. I?d love to see this become a regular expression. 

92/100 ? if you like Laphroaig, this is great stuff imho



Different species than White (American) Oak. Far less common in whisky aging.

Having said that, you do raise a very good point; however, if it was ex-wine, they probably would have listed it. I think it would be safe to say Virgin and/or refill casks.



According to the Laphroaig website, this is aged in a combination of 1st fill Bourbon barrels and "European oak." Thanks to u/medicfourlife for the sample.

Laphroaig An Cuan Mor, 48%

Color: 1.3

Nose: Bitter oak, dry(dry dry) and musty peat, some sulphury sweet and funky wine. Burnt caramel. This is dry, gnarled, cracked and weathered, but with a creamy and sweet undertone. It's an... interesting nose.

Taste: Surprisingly malty and light, big disconnect from the nose. Creamy malt and very slight peat, like a non-islay with mild peat influence a la highland park. The sweet creaminess morphs into burnt or charcoal flavor that comes across as dark, burnt root beer, it's as interesting as it is yummy.

Finish: Light, creamy peat that darkens and turns to burnt charcoal and ash. It leaves me with that darkly sweet burnt caramel and root beer.

This was so interesting, I'm not sure what to make of it. As much as I love Laphroaig, they can be kind of a one trick pony. Even when they add a finish like the PX or TW it's still very much Laphroaig. This one's out of left field with sweet, creamy notes that still somehow take on a blackened, ashy and somber tone(in a good way!). And the peat doesn't seem to be the main attraction. I didn't know Laphroaig had it in them, well done. I would assume "European oak" to be sherry barrels, but this doesn't take on an average sherried peat profile to me so I wonder if there's wine casks or something else going on. 

All in all, this was good and interesting but it didn't totally click with me, it was just missing a certain something I can't put my finger on.

Score: 6

1 | Disgusting | So bad I poured it out.

2 | Poor | I wouldn't consume by choice.

3 | Bad | Multiple flaws.

4 | Sub-par | Not bad, but many things I'd rather have.

5 | Good | This is a good, solid daily.

6 | Very Good | A cut above.

7 | Great | Well above average.

8 | Excellent | Really quite exceptional.

9 | Incredible | An all time favorite.

10 | Insurpassable | No better exists.



this was good and interesting but it didn't totally click with me

This is how I felt about it.



Finally consummated a long-agreed to trade with /u/Randimosity this weekend to swap some 2/3 full bottles. Took a little sip of this Sat night & got very excited. Then last night I poured out a full 2 oz measure from a sample I had to see if it was as good as first impressions. Spoiler Alert: Hells to the Yeah, and I'm drinking more tonight as I tidy up these notes. The giant snifter of Laphroaig also helps me to nudge up that score a bit...I'm done worrying if this scores higher or lower than similarly situated Laphroaigs, the score reflects my immense enthusiasm and enjoyment of this.

Nose: Bbq'd butterscotch. brooding, dark Laphroaig, just enough iodine so you don't need Google maps to tell you you're sitting on Islay. This is in a giant snifter because Laphroaig can't be tamed! GET AGGRESSIVE...whew, exhausting how delicious this is

Taste: Remember that episode when Homer had his jaw wired shut and Marge made him rib smoothies? Laphroaig does. This is smoky and meaty and just sugary enough. Plus, 48%! Tamped down iodine, extra ash and umami. It's like a didgeridoo or some other vaguely mysterious reference to feedback loops of joy.

Finish: burnt bacon. Thank you, Jebus!

Sum-Up: Next to some cask strength IBs this may be my favorite Laphroaig (uncertainty caused by present-drink bias). Thanks again to /u/Randimosity and /u/dumpkopf for helping me find such a joyous dram. So, I guess what I'm saying is, be friends with those guys. 92/100



I don't know if/when I'll ever get to try this but I thoroughly enjoyed your review.

/tips glass 



Two notes, just referring to my own scores of other Laphroaigs

Also An Cuan Mor means Big Ocean, so there you go



I believe it's selected from whiskies only aged in warehouse 1, which is literally right by the sea. The whiskies aged there tend to have a lot more marine qualities, a bit of a salty and peppery character.

An Cuan Mor is also aged in first-fill ex-American white oak bourbon barrels before being aged further in European oak.

It's still distinctively the same old Laphroaig we all love, just with a peppery note.



I thought Triple Wood was ok but missing something. This is that something. It's just rich with great smoky balance, less medicine than the 10 or CS. I think it's aged in first fill ex-bourbon for some period, then all gets transferred to European oak, so it has that mix of first-fill barrels & subdued sherry/wine influence (they don't specify what european oak casks, assume a mix). I really like Laphroaig so it's no surprise this suited me

tl;dr - it just tastes good



Laphroaig An Cuan Mor - 48%, $100 

Nose: Strong peat tar, wood ash, iodine, strong brine, salt, lightly musty, oak, sherry fruits, slight raisin, slight figs, light leather. 

Taste: Smoky peat, ashy wet wood, sweet sherry, meaty, oaky, salt, iodine, light brine, slight leather, slightly musty, vanilla. Medium to full mouthfeel. 

Finish: The sweet sherry holds with the salt and is mouth watering, the ashy wet wood peat holds over it all. The oaky turns musty and the leather comes along. Medium to long length.  

Notes: This is a travel retail edition that is purported to be 18 year that spent a long finish in sherry casks. I'm not sure if that's the case but I can say that whatever it is it's good. Much like the 18 year the peat is more mellow than the younger expressions but it is complex. The type of peat is much different than the other OBs so I can see why they put this as travel retail.  

88/100 



Greetings Scotchit! A friend of mine was in London this weekend, and asked me if I wanted anything Scotch-wise. I initially wasn't sure, but then remembered that Laphroaig had recently released a couple of new travel retail bottlings. The PX Cask has become one of my staples, being easy to drink and relatively affordable per litre, especially since my family and friends travel frequently.

Naturally, I was curious if the An Cuan Mor (ie. Big Ocean, good job marketing!) was any good. I have a sample of the QA Cask waiting for a review as well, but I was more excited to pop this baby open and find out what it's like. 

Is it a worthy addition to the Laphroaig line despite its NAS nature, or is it a gimmicky finish that never should have been made? Let's find out!

Laphroaig An Cuan Mor
Islay, 48% ABV, NCF, E150?, ?80 for 700ml

Nose: Sweet peat and smoke. Strong apricots and peaches. Malt and toffee. Vanilla and brown sugar. Light brine and pepper. Slight soapiness. 

Really sweet - I think it's even sweeter than the QC, but it's been a long time since I tried that. There's a very strong scent of apricot, which I get a lot from European oak. Slight Laphroaig salty pepperiness, but it's very mild. 

Taste: Decently oily mouthfeel. Medicinal peat and smoke. Iodine. Apricot and brown sugar. Pepper and seawater. Toasted oak and barrel char. Slight astringency.

A very sweet Laphroaig - it's not as winey as the PX Cask, but definitely sweeter. It's kind of interesting, actually, because I assume that it just comes from the virgin European oak. There's a slight off-note of astringent oak, but it's not as bad as in the QC. Still a significant amount of Laphroaiginess throughout though. 

Finish: Long. Old, musty oak. Ashy smoke. Dry malt and cream. Earthy dirt and wet stones. Dry caramel. Cigarette ashes. Very light apricots and pear peels.

I like this type of finish - it's very Kilchoman 100% Islay. It's actually really nice in a dying fire type of way and probably my favourite part of this.

Summary: So yeah, this is alright. It's creamy and sweet and then finishes on smouldering ashes. It's very much a whisky I could grow to love and a pretty damn decent addition to Laphroaig line. I get the feeling this sits somewhere between the 10 and the 18 in terms of age. I'm glad they haven't worked the quarter cask gimmick into the maturation.

That said, it's pretty wildly overpriced for an NAS whisky, retailing at well over double the QC, but it's not a shoddy whisky in any sense. Is it worth the cash? I honestly couldn't say. I think it might be, occasionally, but the PX and QA Casks are more affordable and just as drinkable. 

This is good whisky and - price aside - well worth your time. I think it's definitely the best travel retail exclusive available. 

Score: 90/100
Excellent.

Buy Again? Yes, I think I may eventually. 

Previous Laphroaig reviews: All of them. Check the archive. 



Thanks for the review! Read about this one recently and was curious. Lucky bastard! :D

"Cigarette ashes"... interesting... ever had cigarette ash in your mouth? Wondering where you got this reference.



Different. Portwood was winy and dry at times, this is juicy and sweet.

Couldn't tell you with certainty which I prefer, because my PW bottle is unopened.



I've bought 2 bottles of the QC. I bought a second bottle despite thinking the first was meh, because everyone kept sucking its dick in reviews. I thought maybe it was a bad bottle, only to discover that my opinion didn't change with a second bottle. I had the same happen with Ardbeg 10.

So yeah, I don't like the QC - I find it excessively bitter and astringent. This is slightly both of those, but overall much less and much sweeter. 

They're similar, but I vastly prefer this.



Hi maltytaskers! One of my teachers used to say it's better to be Shot than Knot. Why you ask? Well: Ned Knot was shot and Sam Shot was not. Some say Knot was not shot, but Shot says he shot Knot. Either the shot Shot shot was not shot, or Knot was shot. If the shot Shot shot shot Knot, Knot was shot, but if the shot Shot shot shot Shot, Shot was shot, not Knot. However: the shot Shot shot shot not Shot, but Knot.

Laphroaig An Cuan Mor

Islay, 48%

Non chill-filtered.

color: matt amber

nose: peat smoke, blackcurrants, carbonic acid, black pepper, honey, mint, dates, rum balls

taste: peat smoke, pepper, blackcurrants, mint, licorice, Fisherman's Friend (TM), cloves, aniseed

finish: licorice, oak, pepper, mint, medicinal, drying, cigarette ash

Busy nose. Steady arrival and a peppery development. Intense and long finish, almost hot. Very spicy Laphroaig, pepper is the main feature here. A few drops of water help.

83/100



Another sample from my swap with /u/Vreckan. This was one that always piqued my curiosity, but not enough to spend the price asked on an NAS Travel Retail exclusive (something that has burned me several times in the past, particularly Bunnahabhain Darach Ur). So I'm really glad to finally try it.

Aged 3 years, 48% ABV, Matured in First fill bourbon and "European Oak" (probably at least some PX) casks, NCA, NCF

Nose: Mineral peat. Medicinal notes. The Laphroaig signature. Smoked salmon. Oil smoke and engine grease. Tangerine rind. Wet sea rocks and drying kelp. Mango atchar. Coconut. Dried figs. Zante currants. Woody vanilla. Black pepper. 

Palate: Very aggressive Laphroaig profile here. Iodine. Oily smoke. Mineral peat. Salt. Big spicy note. Pepper. Ginger. Bit of chilli. Then a nice touch of fruit just before the swallow. Pineapple. Dried apricots. Figs. Honey. Vanilla. 

Finish: Long. Absolutely filthy oil smoke and grease. Very peaty. Salt and seaside notes. More smoked salmon. Some undulating cough syrupy notes, figs (definitely some PX influence here) and woodspice. Wine tannins.

This was a lovely dram, not just a good combination of sweet bourbon and sherry with peat, but also quite dynamic, with the balance between the sweet and peat constantly shifting. Definitely going to try pick up a bottle at some point.  

EDIT: Bad grammar, been living in a non-English speaking environment for too long. 



Thank you for posting that review.

Since you seem like the type who'd want to hear this: the phrase is "piqued my curiosity", not "peaked my curiosity." http://blog.dictionary.com/pique-peak-peek/



This is a travel retail exclusive from Laphroaig - An Cuan Mor being ?Big Ocean? in Gaelic. This one?s been matured in first fill bourbon, before being transferred to European Oak per the label.

No Age Statement. 48% abv.

Nose - Well, the label mentions smoke, apricot, and raisin, and I certainly get all three. Also, there?s plenty of black and white pepper, oceany salinity, white chocolate, and vanilla. For some reason I?m not liking this as much as some other Laphroaig?s I?ve had...

Taste - Oranges, apricots, lots of black and white pepper, white chocolate, vanilla, plenty of smoke, powdered ginger. Smoke and spice notes are pretty big here. Spice notes get a bit aggressive. Medium body, feels a bit syrupy.

Finish - Smoke, big black and white pepper notes, orange liqueur, apricots, and that oceany note makes a reappearance. Spice notes stick around for a while.

This is a decent NAS Islay whisky, but for whatever reason these flavors don?t really jibe for me the way I hoped. I typically love Laphroaig, but something about those white chocolate and apricot notes aren?t really coming together for me - but those are a couple things I don?t care for all that much anyway (I like apricots as a complimentary flavor at times, but not as much when it?s front and center like it is here). If those flavors sound like something you?d go for then seek this out, as I said it?s a perfectly decent whisky and I?m not having any trouble drinking it, but I think I?ll be reaching for something else from Laphroaig.

83/100