Fuck it, lets get the 200 mark out of the way.

Laphroaig is the whisky got me into whisky, so I thought it would be a good way to celebrate 200 reviews.

I had some of these bottles to hand, but got some of the others as swaps and samples.

Review #196: Laphroaig 10

This was my first single malt.. the one that hooked me.

This doesn?t taste the way it did when I was first getting into whisky :-( I think that?s more me than the whisky!

Review #197: Laphroaig QC

Thanks to /u/Scotch_Fanatic for sending this.

Still the best value Islay single malt in my opinion.

Review #198: Laphroaig 18

I got this as a sample from Whisky-site.nl.

I know it?s not as popular as the others, but I quite like the smooth chilled out peatiness of this. 

Review #199: Laphroaig CS Batch 006

Always have a bottle of this on hand.

The best laphroaig!

Reviewed batch 005 before, this is better in my opinion.

Review #200: Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014 Amontillado

Bought this one on Islay. I posted a review after my trip but didn?t number the reviews.. Decided to have another crack at it.

For a long time this was my favourite distillery.. It?s still up there but my tastes have changed.

Even though whisky 200 isn?t epic it reminds me of my trip round the distillery that got me into whisky



Two answers, at the moment based purely on whisky, glendronach. Really into sherried whisky at the moment and they're doing it really well.

Overall, Glenfarclas and Springbank are my favourites.. Independent still (I think), no bullshit advertising, great value, great whisky, no nonsense.

I could be wrong about this, but it just seems like they let their product sell itself without any gimmicks (marketing or otherwise).



A while ago someone about making a gold to follow the silver... but after 100 I think it all gets a bit ridiculous :-P

Next goal, try every distillery.. Every time I buy a bottle form somewhere that does samples (or go to a decent whisky bar) I buy something from a distillery I don't know.

Sounds kind of silly, but it's got me into somethings I otherwise wouldn't try.. Macduff/Glen Devron sherry casks and all the glen spey's I've tried have been spectacular!!



Was drinking my QC tonight. So Good!

I gotta pick me up that Cairdeas 2014.



*best value. I can get it for $70 where as most other competitive offerings are easily 80-120 up to 220.

Yay Canada -_-



Thought this might be of interest here too:

Actually, now I think about it, for <?40 the kilchoman machir bay, bunnahabian 12, and Laphroaig QC are all on a similar footing, but completely different animals. Some people prefer the Caol Ila 12 or ardbeg 10, which are the same price, but for some reason they just don't suite my tastes as much.



Hmm. Unfortunately being in Ontario we only have the provincial liquor board/retailer to purchase alcohol (no online, no independent, only other option is in a bar). I've tried the Caol Ila and Ardbeg, but Kilchoman Machir is not available anymore and Bunnahabian has been out of stock for like a year.

Ardbeg is my favourite as it seems to be the most well defined and articulate. Caol Ila is good but a bit sweat and 'porky'. Talisker 10 and Laphroaig QC are my other faves.



Thanks for the gold!!

I'd say the Cask Strength is by far the best, I personally wouldn't buy anything else and I always have a bottle in stock.. The QC is the best value. For the price I'd say it's probably the best Islay whisky.

Actually, now I think about it, for <?40 the kilchoman machir bay, bunnahabian 12, and Laphroaig QC are all on a similar footing, but completely different animals. Some people prefer the Caol Ila 12 or ardbeg 10, which are the same price, but for some reason they just don't suite my tastes as much.



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014 Amontillado Cask ? 51.4%, $70

Nose: Medicinal, Intense Iodine, Heavy Smoke, Sweet and winey. 

Taste: Winey sweet, intense smoke and bog peat. Just a little meaty. Medium mouthfeel

Finish: Smoke dominates, a little sweet that fades as the iodine comes back. Medium Length.

Notes: Same Laphroaig notes that I?ve come to know and love but there is a noticeable positive wine influence. After trying other sherry finished Laphroaig I think I like this one the most. I will say I like it much better than the 2013 Port Wood. It?s a good and different showing from Laphroaig.

87/100



you like it more than the Portwood? 

you're dead to me.



My first question when hearing about this release was ?what the hell is Amontillado??. Well Amontillado is "a variety of Sherry wine characterized by being darker than Fino but lighter than Oloroso? (wikipedia). It?s a sherry that starts life as a Fino, but then through a manipulation of fortification is turned into an Amontillado. In simple terms it?s a type of sherry so what we?re really dealing with is a sherry finished Laphroaig. Just not the typical Oloroso or PX casks that are often sought after and used.

ABV: 51.4%

Age:9 years

Price: $75*

Distiller: Laphroaig

Eye: 
Golden yellow

Nose:
There is no mistaking it... this is a Laphroaig. That sweet smoky peat just rockets out of the glass. Warm and aromatic that signature peat mixes gracefully with milky caramel, brine, citrus custard, smoked meat, cinnamon, toasted nuts and a rich earthy mushroom like character.

Taste:
Peat, ash and a milky sweetness permeate the palate. These dominant flavors mix harmoniously with notes of cocoa, cinnamon, leather, charcoal, smoked meat and sea salt. No matter how you slice it, it's a nice tasting whisky.

Finish:
A long full finish filled with smoke, peat char and a nutty malty sweetness that slowly fades out to a leathery cinnamon.

Balance, Body & Feel:
Great balance, a medium body and a warm rich feel that has some serious bite to it. You definitely know you're drinking a high proofed scotch.

Score:
88/100

Overall:
The nose and palate are nice, but there is a persistent milky sweetness in there that throws it a bit off for me. Don't get me wrong, I definitely like it, but for me it just doesn't hold a candle to last year's release. The 2013 Port Wood edition is still among my favorite whiskies and has a deep and complex richness that this one just can't quite match. Nonetheless, it's tasty and as soon as I can find someone with a bottle in stock I'll be bringing it home with me.



Emergency reviews from a few weeks ago and from tonight. Walker was an emergency because I needed one more bottle to send to my secret Santa and Cairdeas because my state's allocation is selling out and I need to know how many to buy.

Johnnie Walker Green Label

A quick review thrown together when I needed one more sample bottle to complete a swap. I trust my conclusion, but my notes may have been a bit rushed.

Price: It looks like this used to retail for $42.99 here

Nose: It takes a moment to get below the alcohol smell, which surprised me. Fruit that I'd call green apples and green grapes. Leather, a bit of salt, grains, and distant hints of smoke and earth.

Mouthfeel: lovely. Smooth, dry, and coating

Taste: sweet oak and barely malt. Fruits. Some spices, but not at all overpowering: pepper/cinnamon with hint of nutmeg or similar. 

Finish: initially fairly spicy with the pepper, but that dies quickly. A brief interval in the land of "I just drank whisky" before the apples and earthy dirt covered leather come to hang around as an aftertaste.

I came here fully expecting another mediocre Walker offering, ala Johnnie Walker Black. This was more complex (and simply better all around) than expected and I wish I had given it more time. There are the Speyside apple notes but also earth, spice, and smoke from the other components. I join the masses in mourning it's passing.

Score: 89.4/100

Would I buy it again? For $43 this probably could have been a staple. Alas, it's too late now.

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014 Edition

Price: $74.99

Nose: Initially the traditional Laphroaig notes such as iodine Band-Aids, peat, smoke, etc are definitely here, but are more subdued than usual, masked by something else. That something is hard to define - sweet like honey, spice like cinnamon, cooked fruit like snitz pie, and woody like a barn. As it sits exposed to oxygen, the bandaid smoke becomes more pronounced, along with traces of salt and seaweed. There remains though a cereal grain sweetness/cooked fruit combo that I've not previously experienced. It's like opening a bag of some perfect yet to be invented breakfast cereal for the first time.

Mouthfeel: thin side of medium, slightly dryer than perhaps normal, and smoothly coating inside the mouth

Taste: again there is an upfront flash of honey sweet breakfast cereal, salted cooked apples (overripe and bordering on turning from cider to vinegar), and wood. Behind this lurks the traditional Laphroaig kick in the face by a horse, only this horse is pulling punches and wears soft sole horse shoes while galloping the smokey bog. I can taste the sherry in the form of raisins, but just barely. 

Finish: immediate medium to long burn, followed by a complex parade of aftertastes. The mossy bog smoke we expect is there as is the hospital iodine. There's wood and sherry derived dates or raisins. There's cinnamon and perhaps some nutmeg. It's warning and enjoyable on this post Christmas day.

Well, I know I am going to order a few bottles. I personally like this better than the previous year's Cairdeas. The more muted peat smoke is great, but the sweet wood cereal fruit taste is delicious. I am torn about the score for this, alternately wanting to go both higher and lower by 3 points or so. A-

Score: 92/100

Post review I went back and poured a nip from my yet-to-be-reviewed Laphroaig Quarter Cask bottle just to remind myself of the true potency of that bog horse kick. And what a kick it is. Color me impressed by Amontillado hogsheads.

edits: formatting, links



Green Label is such an enjoyable whiskey to drink. At that price you must have gotten a great deal on it. PA closeout perhaps? At that price, I picked up half a case.

Glad to see you enjoyed the Cairdeas 2014. I think I am going to enjoy it as well. 



Greetings Scotchit! It feels like it's been months since my last review, and it almost has! I've been away, doing the Finnish summer thing at summer cabins across the country. Regardless, this bottle finally arrived so I had to pop it immediately. 

Another year, another Feis Ile, another Cairdeas. This one's matured in first fill bourbon casks and finished in Amontillado casks. 

Let's find out!

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014
Islay, 51.4% ABV, NCF, NCA, ~?90 for 700ml

Nose: Laphroaig peat. Rounded spices - cinnamon and maybe nutmeg (or allspice?). Salty brine. Iodine. Hint of dry wine. Lemon zest. Toasted American oak. Dry earth. With water, some more earth and cigar ash (from a light cigar) comes out. 

Distinctly Laphroaig, as always. It's interesting, though. Earthier and more restrained than most Laphroaigs, with an added lightly spiced coating.

Taste: Creamy and juicy, very oily mouthfeel. Initial brine kick. Bourbon cask vanilla and cinnamon. Slight cloves. Delayed Laphroaig peat. Lingering smoke. Lemon zest. Hint of marzipan. Dill pickle. With water, butterscotch and almonds, as well as some syrupy sherry.

Very drinkable neat, excellent mouthfeel. Brine and smoke are definitely the main event, as they often are with Laphroaig, but there's an added layer of intrigue that's fascinating and quite challenging.

Finish: Lengthy, but cooling. Smoke and iodine. Pickle brine. Salted mackerel. A brief blast of charcoal. Cinnamon and burnt orange peel. Lingering wet wood. With water, drier and ashier.

This is right about at the sweet spot for Laphroaig in terms of age. Not mellow, but not as sharp as the QC either. 

Summary: I didn't really know what to expect out of Amontillado casks - seeing as I've had neither the wine nor any whisky from the casks - but on the nose this isn't quite that. Perhaps if I'd had some more Manzanilla/Fino casked whiskies, I might have guessed, but this is probably still quite unique. 

The most distinct note here is this salty pickle brine taste that lasts for ages in the finish, and while present in the nose is definitely kept in check by those light spices. On the finish, it's hard to taste anything else but that. 

It's a hard one to recommend for anyone who's not as nuts about Laphroaig as I am, because this amps up a lot of the harder-to-enjoy elements in the distillery's products. The smoke is there, but not the main event - rather, it's the sea salt that dominates this (at least on my palate). 

For those of you who have cut your teeth on the QC, 10 and possibly the PX and 10 CS, this is quite a unique product that you should probably give a shot. It's not as sweet as any of those, but in return you get a wonderful mouthfeel and lots of layers of complexity. If it's any sort of recommendation, I've tasted a lot of whisky and I've spent the past 30 minutes puzzling over what to make of it. 

If you're curious, I found that a teaspoon of water really helped this one come into its own, and brought out some sweet notes that this desperately needed. With that in mind, I think I'm ready to give this one a score.

Score: 89/100
Unique and uniquely Laphroaig.

Most Similar To: Laphroaig 10 CS, Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood, Laphroaig PX Cask.

Buy Again? I don't think I could, but let's just say I'm glad I have 2 bottles. 



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014

(51.4%, matured in first fill ex-bourbon casks + 1 year finish in Amontillado hogsheads, 2014 limited release)

?

Thanks to u/Boyd86 for this sample! 

?

Nose: Smoke, straw, nuts, orange, flint, lime, nutmeg, hint of rubber

Taste: Lemon candies, cocoa, nuts, vanilla cream, straw, ash, earth

Finish: Ash, dirt, leather, clementine oranges, fennel seed, minerals

?

The nose is immediately sweet, smoky and a little musty. Over time, it morphs into predominantly mineral and farmy notes? seemingly more akin to Laddie than Frog. The taste starts off with a light citrus sweetness, turning creamy around the middle and ashen and earthy (also slightly sour) by the end. Interestingly still seems more farmy than traditionally seaside to me. The finish remains on theme, big and bold on ash and earthy flavours with some tart/tangy fruit and minerals. Leaves a gentle trailing warmth behind.

Quite a unique and interesting character to this one. I don?t think I?ve ever had a Laphroaig with such dynamic orange notes to it before, nor one with such farmy qualities. Weird (for a Laphroaig) but the mix of flavours worked for me and I ended up quite liking this!

?

87/100



Laphroaig PX ? 48%

This pour sounded really interesting, so I got a sample from Finedrams while it was still shipping to the states. I was hoping for a very interesting whiskey, like the Kilchoman PX SiB I tried at a local bar. Well, this Phroaggy definitely hopped, but let?s see how it stacked up.

?

?

It?s a fine Laphroaig, but needs much more PX maturation to really stand out. As it is, it just tastes like a mature Phroaggy, which isn?t at all a bad thing, just not what I was looking for with this dram. Considering I think it cost me just a bit over $100 with shipping for a 1L bottle, it?s a great value bottle. 

?

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014 ? Amontillado Finish - 51.4%

Thanks to /u/celocanth13 for the sample! I did not review these two side by side, but since I hadn?t posted the PX review just yet, I figured I?d merge them into one! Unlike the 2013 Cairdeas, the 2014 version was not very well-received. I can definitely see why, the port influence is proven to work well with peat, but Comus did amazing things with a white wine finish?

?

Good stuff, but the wine influence is very subtle. I?ll be a voice of dissent and say it?s almost as good as the 2013 version, but I was not very impressed with that one for some reason. I think the largest issue is that Laphroaig?s strongest character ? that strong sense of phenol ? is starting to bore me. 



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  Well... after the near perfect Portwood edition, I knew it was going to be hard to follow up.  So how does the new Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014 Amontillado 51.4%abv stack up?  not even close...

quite different than any other laphroaig.  citrusy and inky and very dusty.  though quite strong flavored, its just not the laphroaig I'm used to and the Amontillado doesnt improve it, it just changes it too much. Amontillado is another sherry like Jerez, Oloroso or Pedro Ximenes.  Why is it so dusty?  I just looked on Laphroaig's official site and even they list it as dusty. The magic marker really puts me off to it.  Its just not my Laphroaig.  Disappointing that it isnt like the 27 year old Oloroso, which I was hoping because that stuff was fantastic and super well balanced.  This not so much.  This made the Laphraoig turn into a completely different Whisky and I would not have known it was Laphroaig had I gotten a mystery dram.  Its still decent whisky, but I even rank it lower than just the regular 10 year old.  Ya'll know I'm a big Laphroaig Fan Boy but...no Laphroaig magic in this one for me.  sigh... guess I'll try and get more portwood.  

87/100



additional info:  Laphroaig puts out a special edition bottling every year called "Cairdeas" which is pronounced CAR-Chus.  

This one was matured first for years in Ex-bourbon casks and then a year in the Sherry Hogshead Cask. 



Astar is an awesome CS beast, along the lines of Amrut CS, Caol Ila Stichtell Reserve, and other things that I consider to be malt whisky at it's most basic best.

My favorite Glenmo, though, is Ealanta. For me it was a bridge from Scotch to bourbon, and I've bunkered bottles of it for the long-haul because I love it.



Totally depends on price-- I got all but one of my Ealanta's for under $100. When Murray's bible came out and named it whisky of the year, prices shot up to $150-225, which is insane and not worth it.

I don't let price influence my ratings at all, but I definitely factor it into whether or not it's worth purchasing again.



ditto on the price/rating stuff.

price weighs heavy on my purchasing habits.  price:LOVE -ratio



Good thing we're all different :-)

I really enjoy Laphroaig. Love 'em, have several different ones in my opened-bottle collection. But I don't like the PX, while I really like the 2014 Cairdeas a lot. Funny that.



astringent, dusty, musty oak

Nope. Don't want it.



sample. can't always rely on me right?  I wonder how many people actually listen to me and buy things because of me...

I may have to fake everyone out some time.



Disappointing that it isn't like the 27 year old Oloroso

I'm disappointed that Bowmore's Feis Ile 2014 bottling isn't like the 1st edition Black Bowmore.

(I wasn't a fan of this year's Laphroaig, either)



I was surprised that nowhere in your description did you use an adjective indicating "nutty".   Amontillado should impart a whopping of nuttiness, which is a flavor I like with my peat.  

Of course, if snake skin is nutty, then I stand corrected-- I have no idea....  If dusty means like antique, there could be some old spirit.  Sometimes I like that kind of dust.

Thanks for the review, it gives me some contrast to other high ratings e.g. on Whiskybase.  Maybe I won't feel so bad now, not getting a bottle :)



like dust smells.  dry and earthy yeah.  musty, musky.  I mean, there are a lot of adjectives we give to Peated whisky that might sound terrible in theory but are pretty good in practice.  This is just way struck me.  

no question about the snake skin from anyone though huh?...



there we go!  jeez people.

my brother has owned a Ball Python for about 20 years now.  used to let it go around my neck around the house.  distinct odor of musk. 



its Nupin

little, yellow, different. 



Right, so I very much like my Laphroaig. I also like my whiskies un-chill filtered and matured in first fill bourbon casks.  This is the 2014 release of Laphroaig's annual Cairdead series where they make a limited release of some special finish. Bottled at 51.4%, un-chill filtered and matured in first fill bourbon and finished in Amontillado sherry. Had to get me this.

Nose: Signature Laphroaig medicinal and mineral peat notes, but toned down somewhat and sweeter. 
A gunpowdery, sulphury sherry note is also lingering and compliments this very nicely. Vanilla pods. 
The spray when peeling a clemetine. Bitter cacao. Salt. Rubber. Wet hot tiles, like the kind around the pool on a hot day. Treated thatched roof.

Palate: Fresh citrus zest burst, leading into sweet earthy peat, then mineral salts. Thatched roof. Spicy nut notes. 

Finish: Long. Gloriously peaty. More citrus, particularly celemntines and a bit of grapefruit. Ginger snaps. More rusty metal. 

Rating: 10/10

This is the perfect Laphroaig (note to hecklers: perfect for me, according to my tastes and how I like my whisky). There is definitely some younger spirit in here, and young Islays are always a treat. I really liked how the peat was still very much there, but toned down just enough to let some of the bourbon and sherry notes from the casks come through. It's a deliciously interesting dram.



I'm not sure about shipping (had mine shipped to friends in LA who brought it over the mighty ocean for me).

Their website says they still have stock



I bought a bottle today. 

I am enjoying it, and the misses has also said that "it tastes better than the normal one".

Had to pay the Australia Tax tho - $150 sigh



I was at a local whiskey bar the other night and was made aware of the existence of Cairdeas. I love my 10, 18 and quarter cask, but had never heard of this one. 

It was exquisite. Not as peaty as I typically enjoy, but it was absolutely beautiful. OP's review is right on the nose, just like this drop is. I'll have to see if I can find a decently priced bottle, because at $32 a nip, I can't really justify it. 



Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin

Thanks to the person who made this swap happen (they've been asked not to be mentioned) for this swap!

So I'd be remiss if I talked about some (not all) of the special editions if I didn't try mentioned and review some of the (not all) Cairdeas offerings.

But first: What the heck is Cairdeas? Well it's the word for Friendship in Gaelic. Make sense? Not really. Well, it was made for the distillery's popular friends program. And comes out during the Feis Ile festival as a special edition. It's been going on since 2008. 

So we'll start with Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin. This is from Feis Ile 2012. It's NAS. There's rumors that half of it spent 7 years in Quarter casks and the other half in refill ex-bourbon casks for 13-21 years.

So that's a little crazy. A cask strength Quarter Cask/Hybrid Laphroaig? This could end up bad.

Let's see how it tastes.

Price: N/A in Ontario anymore... (dammit should have bought it)

Abv: 51.2%

Colour: Butter

Nose: Peat, pear, lilac, nutmeg, sea air, prickly, kiwi, roasted pine nuts

Quite prickly. The floral notes in the 15 year is showing up again, yet the additional Abv. has added to it and ramps it up quite a bit. There's also a nutty note here.

So far, not shit. I'm impressed, this is nice and strong. My wife is not a fan.

Taste: Nutmeg, peat, cocoa, sugared lemon rind, cinnamon, pepper steak, peach, chocolate milk

If you don't like spices, or overtly spiced things, with an earthy mixture, you'd better walk away. Like my wife did (from the whisky, not me, I'm not single, don't PM me your boobs/dicks/boob dicks).

There's a chocolate milk note that Laphroaig comes up with after awhile. It eventually takes over here, and the other notes kinda take a back seat to it. However before that, it's tasty.

Finish: Peanut, salt air, anise, curry powder, peach cobbler, vanilla, smoke

It finishes with a lot of nutty, spicy, and sweet notes. All well built up. It's a good mixture of young, ovaries to the oak strength with some complexity to edge out the usual issues with youth.

Well, other than the fact that your frontal lobe doesn't develop until you hit 25 and thus you aren't able to calmly approach all situations without it going through your emotional center of your mind. But that more so applies to people and thankfully not whisky, luckily.

Conclusion: This is really tasty. It's a good blend of youth and age, it has some complexity to it, and I really, really wish I bought a bottle when I found it.

That said, it's not setting off memories. It's a definite buy, it's tasty, and at times it'll burn the shit out of you or send random spices mixed with sweetness that kinda doesn't work. I can't really bash it too much, I can only say that there is better.

86/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood 2013

Thanks to /u/Lord-of-the-manor for this hard to find dram.

Are you new here? If so, then you don't remember the sheer, ball gargling, house shopping love that comes from this whisky. Hell, it's still here.

And if I was more Hipster-esque, then seriously I'd be annoyed. However I'm not. just because something is popular doesn't mean it sucks or doesn't suck or etc, etc. Oog is amazing. Tobermory isn't that great (Editor's Note: To me). Two good examples of popular things I both agree and disagree with.

And if you feel that anything popular isn't for you automatically, I just have to say the following: All the cool kids are breathing.

I need to hand in my opinion. This could end up being the thing I hate.

Anyway, continuing on with the Friendship series, we have the 2013 Feis Ile offering, Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood 2013, which frankly, I'm surprised I ever received. Every trade, hunt, and generally begging, failed, until I finally received it.

Twas a good day. 

Anyway, this is a ex-Bourbon cask whisky that is finished in port pipes. And if that doesn't sell you, then check your pulse, and then realize you may not like port, and that's okay.

Abv: 51.3%

Colour: Ruby maroon walnut

Nose: Plum, BBQ chicken, mesquite, dates, strawberry, mint, mustard seed, ginger, spruce trees in spring

Wow. Lots of complexity.  Tons of fruit. Much spices.

Funny doge's aside, this nose is one of the best I've encountered in a long time. The Peat and salt air from Laphroaig have developed these intricate flavours and spices and holy shit this is good.

Taste: Licorice,  strawberry, currant, peat, black cherry, cola, Salish

Not a shitty Black cherry soda either: No, I'm talking full on, tasty, real cane sugar, costs too damn much, fuck I can't have caffeine, but I want it, Black Cherry soda.

Damn I miss pop.

I'll admit, the nose is still better than the taste, yet this is a sweet, tasty dram.

Finish: Being at the beach by the ocean, eucalyptus,  cinnamon,  nutmeg, rhubarb,  watermelon, smoke, strawberry

It's odd: I lived on an island as a kid, and my mom left eucalyptus in the front hall, so I am reminded of the smell and walking into my childhood home, yet mixed with being at the beach, and I lived nowhere near a beach nor by the ocean.

So I'm confused.

Yet this is tasty. Complex fruit, tons of smoke, and yet it retains that Laphroaig identity.

Conclusion: Well... believe the hype... wait, but I'm part of the hype now, so... uh... believe me?

Go try this yourself. It's tasty. They have taken Laphroaig, evolved the different elements (brine, peat, medicinal), added in additional flavours from the port, and balanced it all. It set off memories, and has a great depth of flavour.

And yes, I'm nitpicking saying it's not as amazing as some other whiskies I have had, however it's up there as one of the best. Buy this if you can.

89/100



It's an old SNL skit-Hans and Franz? "We're here to pump you up!"

They used to say stuff like "Believe us now and understand us later!"
You said "believe the hype... wait, but I'm part of the hype now, so... uh... believe me"

I dunno. Its a weird connection.



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014

Thanks to /u/usquebaugh_ for this dram!

So we did last year's Cairdeas, which was amazing, and one of the better "new" drams I've had in a long time, this must be better, right?

And thus why I am doing these reviews, because hard to find bottles are always a roll of the dice. You never know if something is going to be really nice (see above) or really shitty (see later albums from Metallica).

Up next, Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014. They start with first-fill ex-Bourbon casks and then finished for one year in Amontillado hogsheads.

Now you might be asking: What the fucking hell does any of that mean? Where are my pants? Why can't I juggle? Why does my kid cry at night?

Well, let me answer some of your questions.

First-fill ex-bourbon means that the cask was used for bourbon, shipped to Islay, and then used for this dram. This allows more of the vanilla and sweetness to enter into the whisky. Bourbon casks reduce over time compared to sherry casks, so this is a good thing.

Amontillado is a sherry. It's characterized as being darker than Fino and lighter than Oloroso. Sherry is a fortified wine, and in this case, it's made in Spain. Not details though, however sherry's influence on a cask is harder to diminish, so it shouldn't matter as much.

Abv: 51.4%

Colour: Dull orange

Nose: Orange rind, peat, strawberry,  sea air, sugared cranberries,  vanilla

So it looks like Orange, and smells like bitter orange, and then the sugared elements of the bourbon show up and say nothing, because elements don't communicate. Though they do balance it out.

Oh, and to answer your question, your pants are probably on your legs, or on the floor. All depends on where you work, what time it is, and if you live in a glass house.

Taste: Tequila, orange juice, prickly, ginger, chili flakes,  C-plus soda, chocolate milk

Not shitty, shooting tequila; like good, properly aged silver tequila. Which isn't the first time I've had something like that. It's way too prickly too; detracts.

And that chocolate milk has shown back up again, and taken over. It's too bad, because it was growing into an interesting orange/tequila flavour.

You can't juggle because you haven't practiced enough. As this isn't /r/juggle, I'm assuming you can't. If you can, great. Note that it only really helps if you are picking up at a ren fair. Or trying to distract your boss.

Finish: Mushroom, orange, campfire, medicine, peat, cocoa

Earth. Do you like earth? Cause it's a mouth full of ash and dirt. Dirt, dirt, orange, dirt. I don't mind earth, but this is unbalanced.

What a surprise? A peated, known to be earth whisky, mixed with an earthy spirit finished whisky.

Your kid cries out for a plethora of reasons, all detailed by people who know way more than I do. It sucks, I hope it gets better, and this is one of the hundreds of reasons I'm not having kids. Maybe a muzzle will help.

Conclusion: It was a nice idea. In theory, it should work out great. Everyone likes Laphroaig PX. So they should be trying other types of sherry.

And just look at it! It glows orange, and tastes of oranges! That's pretty cool. A nice amount of acidity to bring out the different smoky elements and add to a tequila like flavoured: On paper, I'd agree to it in a second.

That said, it just doesn't work that well. The orange is bashed to the side, and the finish is unbalanced. The nose is nice, but not great. Nice try, and I look forward to next years. Good luck next time, and I hope it turns out better in the future. 

80/100

Laphroaig PX Cask

Special thanks to /u/ourknownto for a nice sized sample of this dram. I've been looking forward to it!

And finally we have another darling of /r/scotch, recommended quite a bit, Laphroaig PX Cask. This shares quite a few similarities with the triple wood: Each of these whiskies are triple oaked, and each use both Bourbon and Quarter casks as part of it.

The main difference is the type of sherry in the final casks. Triple Wood uses Oloroso, which is darker than the Amontillado sherry (see above), and has less of a yeasty taste of fino sherries, where as Pedro Xim?nez sherry is a sweet, dark, strong-ass (technical term) dessert sherry.

So it's just one little thing, right? Well... maybe. Triple Wood may use older sherry casks. Or maybe newer. Sherry casks don't lose their taste as quickly, so that may not do much. We'll have to see.

So, as I enjoy the latest Doctor Who episode in the dark, let's see if this is my darling as well.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv:48%

Colour: Reddish-gold

Nose: Sour cherry, lemon, peat, salty, anise, clove, fizzy pop bubbles, light caramel

It's really alive. Not "I'm secretly a cannibal and am drinking blood that has electricity running through it's alive or Dusk till Dawn alive drinking, this has some balls/ovaries/whatever genitalia you want to it.

Not actual genitalia.

The PX is holding up a lot better than the Oloroso or Amontillado did. It takes the forefront, and adds that much needed spice that Laphroaig sometimes forgets.

Taste: Strawberry, ash, peat, brine, cranberry, lemon peel, cream, nutmeg

Yeah, the campfire is there, and someone put some cedar in it, so you've got smoke and ash in your throat. What else do we expect from Laphroaig?

Very creamy. And there's no chocolate milk barging in, taking over. Quite nice. Not too over the top on complexity, though nice.

Finish: Anise, black cherry, ash, club soda, basil, earth, lemon, oregano

Finishes with the same earthiness that I've come to expect from a sherried whisky, without overdoing it too much. Still has some character from before. Didn't get left out, like that one little nice kid in To Kill a Mockingbird, who defends Scout in class from the Eule boy and then never shows up again. Waste of a character, if you ask me.

Conclusion: This is very, very similar in taste, texture, and nose to Lagavulin 16. It's creamy, not too strong, has some nice dark fruit notes, and finishes with some earthniness. It's not as ballsy as Lagavulin 16, which is nice. Basically they are both very similar, and you can't go wrong with one if you like the other. Solid from start to finish, with just some moments where the taste missed the mark.

85/100

Scotch review #195-200, Islay review #47-52

Other Laphroaig reviews:

Laphroaig 10 year

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength Batch 004

Laphroaig 18 year

Laphroaig Quarter Cask

Laphroaig Battlehill 13 year



Current Average score for Whisky: 79.15

Current Standard Deviation: 8.31



This is very, very similar in taste, texture, and nose to Lagavulin 16.

Have you tried the Lagavulin DE? I would think that that would be closest to Laphroaig PX, since they are both PX-finished. Especially since you say the PX is less intense than Laga 16; the DE definitely fits that description.



Lagavulin DE is just drowned by sweetness. It ends up tasting like syrup to me. 

Laphroaig PX is, IMO, a perfect daily drinker. Enough complexity to not feel same-y, but very much a Laphroaig in all its untamed beauty. 



So I've been saving these up for awhile, as who doesn't everyone enjoy a multi-review from a verbose nerd who loves the sound of his own words?

That's what I thought, you LOVE IT.

Anyway, it's been awhile since I've had Laphroaig. And there's a reason for that. It costs a shit ton here in Canada.

Also it's hard to find in bars.

But for real, Laphroaig is a good distillery, and I'm not going to bash it, yet I'll admit it is not my favourite Islay distillery: It falls to a strong 5th place on Islay. And that's not a bad thing. When you get in fights with Olympic level fighters, 5th is still awesome, even if you don't get your name on a plaque and a shiny metal disk.

So yeah, I'm okay with the 10 year (it's pretty decent), the Quarter Cask is really tasty, and the 18 is a very nice dram. Not to mention the Battlehill 13 is another, very tasty dram. I also like that Laphroaig isn't afraid to put out a 48%. So they do some things great.

Anyway, the real question today, for my 200th review, is: Outside of the main offerings, how does Laphroaig stand up? 

Because we're always asking ourselves that about every distillery. Special, sometimes NAS editions are here to stay. They make money. They try new things. They play to our deepest desire to hunt things out, either through multiple trips and sorting, or learning everything we can, or even just the idea of tracing one across state/province/country/territory/intergalactic borders.

And some of them continue, growing past the point of special, or others become special, because they are cancelled. I've included them as well.

Let's see if Laphroaig is jumping on the bandwagon, or if they are really heartfelt in these special editions.

Region: Islay

Laphroaig Triple Wood

So I'm at Feather's. It's a week I'm taking off. Relaxing. Mostly just chilling out, enjoying myself, writing, having a dram a day. It's the midst of Fan Expo. On a Saturday. Which was nuts. I need to pick a third, last, not TOO expensive dram.

And I've been hankering quite a bit of for some unique finishes.

Well, what's better than just one finish? Why Three Finishes! That's where Laphroaig Triple Wood comes in. Also I wanted to save some money during this very consumer-centric nerd-a-thon.

But think about it: Three Finishes! Without saying what they are, or using any of your brain to remember, seriously! Three finishes! Sure, I didn't like Dalmore King Al the Third, but that's Dalmore, so are we surprised? And this isn't 16 finishes like that one (Editor note: that's sarcasm), it's just three!

Only after did I find out the three: First ex-Bourbon, selected from multiple vintages that are well suited (their words, not mine), second is Quarter Cask, and then finally a Sherry European Oak cask (Oloroso Sherry Cask). 

So... that's interesting. I typically like a Double Wood, and I like the Quarter Cask, so what could go wrong?

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 48%

Colour: Brass

Nose: Peat, red apples, lime, campfire, strawberry, caramel

So it starts out very similar to the 10 year. Given a blind tasting, I won't lie: I wouldn't have any idea this isn't the 10 year, barring some fruit notes. And faint fruit notes at that.

Like that one Aunt. You know, she's nice, she's great, knits for needy kids, but also knows the names of every single Boss fight in the first 6 Final Fantasy games, and probably is better at original Starcraft then you? Yet you don't notice until later in life, and she's cool, yet still says "That's nice" when you talk about what's wrong with the Jays starting pitcher.

Taste: Cherry, peat, tobacco, cocoa, anise, plum, sea salt, cinnamon

The sherry influence is here now. It's nice, though not really adding too much. Like my commentary between my notes.

I'm a big boy, I know.

Finish: Peat, currant, sparkling strawberry wine, cedar smoke, caramel

And now the sherry is taking over everything. It's shown up, has put down roots, and has run anything else in this whisky to a reservation, just to show up for some Casino commercials.

There's also a young element at the end that turns me off a little.

Conclusion: So I enjoy this experiment, and think it's a tiny bit better than the 10 year. That said, should I pay a premium for something that is +8% Abv. and has lots of promises? No. It's unbalanced towards the sherry cask, I can't really tell the effect, if any, the Quarter Cask did, and at the end of the day, it's just okay.

This probably should have stayed a travel exclusive, as I assume it had more balance when it was less produced.

77/100

Laphroaig 15 year

Thanks to /u/jimvarney01 for this dram!

Firefly. Family Guy. The Tick: The Animated Series. Veronica Mars. Undergrads. The Pete Holmes Show. The Arsenio Hall Show. Community. Clone High. Invader Zim. Futurama.

At some point, we've watched some show that was cancelled. And it sucked, because we liked that show.

This is an odd case for me. I like the whisky that replaced Laphroaig 15 year. I mean, that's never happened before. I sure as fuck am not watching whatever is replacing Community on NBC (I know it was picked up by Yahoo), mostly because I have no idea what it is. And I haven't really liked a lot of the cartoons since the ones that went away.

Maybe I'm just old? Well, that goes without saying. At least I have Adventure Time.

My own age aside, I don't know how I'm going to react to something that was replaced by something I like. This will be interesting.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 43%

Colour: Caramel sauce

Nose: Creme brulee, peat, rich caramel, medicinal, sea air, plum, violets

Really rich nose on this one. Also, as time goes on, there's a little bit of fruit and floral notes.

Wait, if after 15 years there are already deep, rich fruity/floral notes, why finish the triple wood in Oloroso casks? I guess for different notes, however it makes me wonder.

Taste: Peat, chocolate, raspberry, oak, basil, allspice

Good, again rich notes, with some spice and oak to balance it out. Not as crazy as some older drams, yet still nice, complex enough, and I'm enjoying it quite a bit.

No wonder it got cancelled. Does Fox own Laphroaig?

Finish: Raisins, rum cream sauce, Juicy Fruit gum, peat, bacon, brine

Almost reminds me of a rum finish. Long finish, and the peat is nicely evolved. The Brine is like that one buff guy at a weight watchers meeting, completely out of place.

Wait, does Laphroaig have rum casks? Note to self if I'm ever rich enough to buy two ex-rum casks and two casks of Laphroaig Cask Strength, this could be awesome.

Conclusion: So I've re-reviewed my review of the 18 year old. And I've compared it to what I said, after reviewing this one, with Laphroaig 15 year.

I hate to be the dissenting opinion (Editor's note: No you don't.) However I think that the 18 is an improvement of the 15 year. It ends up developing those notes more, and is more complex.

That said, I still think the 15 is a good dram. They've made a 43% dram, that is 3 years younger, taste almost as good as a +5% Abv. 18 year old dram. It's tasty. It has elements of rum, and fruit, and even Lowland floral notes. I'd say pick up a bottle, because damn, this is tasty, and goes to show you that this distillery is well worth your time. And liver space.

84/100



5th on Islay? That's a pile of crap.

Laphroaig > Kilchoman = Caol Ila > Ardbeg > Lagavulin >> Bunnahabhain >>>> Bruichladdich >? Bowmore



I put up the following in response to /u/Dworgi:

Ardbeg > Lagavulin = Kilchoman > Caol Ila > Laphroaig > Bruichladdich > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

That said, I've since gone back, and after these reviews, averaged out my scores for each.

Order is:



Now, take some of those with a grain of salt. Port Ellen, Lagavulin, and Kilchoman have only had 2 reviews each. 

Though the Kilchoman should be getting a boost soon..



See, I tend to go:

Ardbeg > Lagavulin = Kilchoman > Caol Ila > Laphroaig > Bruichladdich > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

EDIT: Turns out, based on my reviews, it goes:

Port Ellen > Lagavulin > Ardbeg > Bruichladdich > Laphroaig > Kilchoman > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

Granted, that could change after I do my Kilchoman quad review.



My disagreement stems from a few factors:

Ardbeg is so unreliable. Alligator was amazing, Ardbog/Auriverdes/Galileo were meh. Uigeadail is great, Corryvreckan is meh. Ardbeg 10 is passable. And then there's Blah-sda. And no IBs unless you have an extra grand to spend.

Lagavulin 16 isn't my thing, Distiller's Edition is downright offensively bland. Lagavulin 12 is great some years, but rubbish other years. There is nothing else unless you have $5,000 to spare. 

Laphroaig is almost rock solid quality. Every Cairdeas I've tried has been at the very least good. Triple Wood is disappointing, QC isn't my thing, QA is a bit bland. But PX, 10, 15, 18 and 10 CS are all great. And their special releases (25, 1989) tend to be pretty good bang for the buck. And there's IBs as well, which gives you an almost infinite amount of ways to spend money on Laphroaig!

Caol Ila is extremely reliable. I like the 12 and 18, DE is a bit boring, CS is great but overpriced. The rest is IBs, which I uniformly think are great, but never truly fall in love with the way I love Laphroaig, but that's personal taste.

The rest is whatever, but Bruichladdich at least tastes like vomit and therefore will never rate highly in my book.



Good points all around, and I appreciate the sentiment. My reasons I differ:

I think we differ in the Ardbeg's we like (though agree on some special editions). I like Corvy and 10 a lot more than you did, if I remember right. We agree on Blah-sda, I think I liked Ardbog more than you, and Galileo eventually grew on me. Auriverdes was a let down. On the other hand, I have had the IBs from Ardbeg, and the 1977, and a Supernova, so that ups my view on them. Price doesn't factor into my scores, so Ardbeg does better.

I can see that. Lagavulin in general gets a higher score because I've only reviewed 2 of them, as I've avoided the DE because of rough scores.

See, I'm not a big fan of the 10 year for Laphroaig. Mix that with the low score from Triple wood, and it's getting pulled down. That said, like I said at the start: Being 5th isn't a bad thing when you're competing. If we remove Port Ellen for being defunct and remove Lagavulin for being low in reviews, then it's a Bronze. Solid bronze for me. Also I've only had one IB, and while I like it, I feel like the QC just takes the cake for me.

I'm iffy on Caol Ila. The Moch wasn't my favourite, the CS is amazing, the DE I loved, and the 12 is, as you say, solid. Need to try more of them.

Well now, let's not just say "Whatever". Sure, Bowmore is pretty useless. Bruichladdich has so many different types that it's hard to nail them down. I've had ones I love and ones that are useless. Bunnahabhain is quality, even if I don't really like the 12 year. I can't just shove it aside. Especially given the IBs I've had from them. Kilchoman... seriously? Whatever? I mean, Dude! If I look back at your reviews for Kilchoman, I'll find some heavy hitters. And yeah, it's defunct, but Port Ellen still counts, and in a big way. 



Kilchoman was whatever because I think we agree on them. If the Port Cask lives up to the hype, they'll be inching towards second place. 

Port Ellen I don't count because it's really hard to get a grasp of what they're like because of price. I'll buy one at some point, but more to own one than anything else. 

Laddie, never been impressed, and their marketing puts me off. Probably some good peated stuff around, but I blended my Port Charlotte bottle because I didn't want to drink it. 

Bunna is all vegetal and funky. Not terrible, but that note really drags them down. 

Ardbeg, well, I've tried all but the single casks, including some of the dumpies. Had Still Young and Supernova too. I think I've done all I can with Ardbeg. I'll continue to buy Oog and annuals, but I can't place them too high based on those, especially since it's been a long time since they had a hit. 



Well, I agree with TOM that the 18 is better than the 15. That being said:

No.



You should always remember:

if I'm ever rich enough to buy two ex-rum casks and two casks of Laphroaig Cask Strength, this could be awesome.