Laphroaig Lore 48% (R/Scotch Review #16 Overall Review #46)

Nose: classic Laphroaig peat, smoke, rotting vegetation, iodine, briny malt underneath with a bit of richness (caramel? white wine?...that would be the sherry portions of the blend talking)

Taste: smoky ash, sweet malt, marzipan, burnt shortbread, a little brine...more smoky and less funky

**Finish: varnish, smoke, a little tar, sweet floral note (lavendar?), fades to slightly bitter ash with a hint of iodine

Score: 6/10

This is a blend of a bunch of different barrels of Laphroaig (probably mostly young, with a few much older barrels thrown in, and a few matured in sherry casks). It's solid, and the richness is a nice little change from my usual Laphroaig choices (10 CS being my favorite and the best value). Unfortunately, it is ridiculously and absurdly overpriced: especially given its lack of an age statement. If it was half of retail, I'd consider buying it.

Scoring System

1 | Disgusting | Drain pour.

2 | Poor | I wouldn't consume by choice.

3 | Bad | Multiple flaws.

4 | Sub-par | Not bad, but many things I'd rather have.

5 | Good | This is a good, solid daily.

6 | Very Good | A cut above.

7 | Great | Well above average.

8 | Excellent | Really quite exceptional.

9 | Incredible | An all time favorite.

10 | Insurpassable | No better exists.



Laphroaig Lore

Disclaimer: I only had two drams of this tonight (and a wee tiny bit when I bottled samples yesterday), one when I took the notes and the other when I typed them and added my ?little? jadda-jadda. As there are not many reviews of this in this sub and it evoked different emotions among those who already had it, I thought it might be of interest. I have to admit, that I have a fairly romanticized view on the Laphroaig 10 as it was my first consciously consumed single malt as well as my first review posted 99 reviews ago in this sub. Ed.: The notes shown in the picture are my first entry for the Laphroaig 10 in my black book      

This is the rather plain version of the review, the TL;DR. You'll find a longer commented version in the comments below.     

WhiskyNetworkReview: #100 (woohoo!) | r/bourbon: #15 | r/scotch: #75 | r/worldwhisky: #10 | ? 85

Nose: It shares similarities with the 10yo as well as the cinnamon roll sweetness I found more prominent in the Quarter Cask and the An Cuan Mor. But it's definitely Laphroaig. Bitter peat, salt, slightly rotting sea weed, paired with sweet cinnamon rolls, vanilla as well as ?ashy? smoke and iodine.
You know, Laphroaig. Granted there are some citrusy notes as well as some marinated bbq meat notes (raw that is) and chocolatey aspects but not very outstanding. The more time I spend nosing it, the more it changes in the way that one note seems slightly more prominent then before just to change again with a new sniff. But within the before given ?Nose frame?.
So far, so good.     

Palate: Sweet creamy entry, turns into smoke, vanilla and bitter peat, inevitable medicinal notes and strong salty/peppery notes at the sides of the tongue. Oily mouthfeel....yeah no, wait! What? That's it? Yeah...ok there are hints of chocolate, rubber and mineral notes but, honestly, that's about it.    

Finish: Quite long, the salty/peppery aspects stay really long. Like really. Ashy smoke, vanilla, peat, cured meat, again cinnamon as well as almost sandy aspects I associate with the QC. It's a strong and powerful finish. The 48% really help here and the finish comes across a bit better then the palate.   

Conclusion: Meh, I'm quite disappointed. But that probably has a lot to with my expectations towards this dram. I actually liked the second dram even less. A boring Islay. I'd turn this down for most of the Islay standard 10 yo expressions (spare Bunna and probably the classic laddie). Maybe that's just today but if I had to rate it after these two drams and from my gut feeling, I would honestly have to say:    

Score: B- so about 83  

I actually feel kinda bad after typing that out and maybe it's just me or the day or...I don't know. Take it with whatever amount of salt you like and I hope I'll like it better tomorrow....



The long version

Nose:  Ok, this says Laphroaig. Or at least Islay, which was identical for me during my early whisky steps.
It shares similarities with the 10yo as well as the cinnamon roll sweetness I found more prominent in the Quarter Cask and the An Cuan Mor. But it's definitely Laphroaig. Bitter peat, salt, slightly rotting sea weed, paired with sweet cinnamon rolls as well as ?ashy? smoke and iodine.
You know, Laphroaig. Granted there are some citrusy notes as well as some marinated bbq meat notes (raw that is) and chocolatey aspects which can be found in other Laphroaigs as well but ? for me! Just for me! - are not very typical for Laphroaig. (Because for me, the typical Laphroaig will always be the standard 10 year old!)
Even though that might sound complex, it really isn't that complex and I might have over pronounced aspects a bit by calling them out, it's like one solid note with all those aspects popping up at the sides. That being said, I guess it really depends on your attitude towards this dram before you approach it. I could definitely see, how and why there are such seemingly contrary reviews. Yes, these notes are there but you have to look for them, they are easily covered by the overall ?Hi. I'm a Laphroaig and I come from Islay.?-note. The more time I spend nosing it (so the whole time I'm typing this), the more it changes in the way that one note seems slightly more prominent then before just to change again with a new sniff. But within the before give ?Nose frame?.     

While I thought about the chocolate notes, I couldn't help but look up which casks were used in the maturing of this whisky: American Oak then finished in European Oak, Refill Laphroaig Casks, Quarter Casks and Oloroso Casks.(It's not really clear on the Laphroaig page and I don't want to look at other reviews/blogs at this point)  And, funnily enough, you can focus on the different aspect each casks ?typically? brings (well, for me that is): the classical Laphroaig notes (again, for me that is) of the 10 year old (Bourbon Cask), the over-pronounced cinnamon roll notes which I always associate with the Quarter cask and the combination of ?American-? and ?European oak? which I tend to believe create the meaty aspects I find in the An Cuan Mor. And, the influence which tickled this chain of thought, the chocolatey notes I tend to get from Oloroso casks. Or maybe, to cite everybody's favorite reviewer, I'm just full of it... ;)

Palate: Sweet creamy entry, turns into smoke, vanilla and bitter peat, inevitable medicinal notes and strong salty/peppery notes at the sides of the tongue. Oily mouthfeel....yeah no, wait! What? That's it? Yeah...ok there are hints of chocolate, rubber and mineral notes but, honestly, that's about it. A bit too sweet and not ?dirty or rough? enough for my Laphroaig liking. On a side note ? Jeeez, what a proof whore did I become that I actually though ?oh well a bit watery??!?

Finish: Quite long, especially the salty/peppery aspects stay really long. Like really. Ashy smoke, vanilla, peat, cured meat, again cinnamon as well as almost sandy aspects I associate with the QC. It's a strong and powerful finish. The 48% really help here and the finish comes across a bit better then the palate. Still a bit of a let down for me as the combination of sweet vanilla and peppery/salty abv bites which lingers the most, doesn't really do it for me here.

Conclusion: Oh well, this one left me wondering. At least so far. I was pretty positive after the nose but after palate and finish, I'm a bit speechless. The longer I think about this, the more I'm disappointed. This is the most honest or fitting description of my feeling towards this dram so far. It's meh. Not meh, this is bad but meh, this is boring. The richest of the rich? Fuck that (excuse my Welsh), I don't want my Laphroaigs to be rich, I always imagined and wanted the Froig to be dirt poor, like that young boy in my first review or, like Lou Reed entering slightly drunk through a side entry of a blues bar full of smoke, playing a few songs in ragged clothes in front of an almost empty audience consisting of drunk police officers sitting on ramshackle wooden chairs, some private investigators wearing trench coats and a lonely hooker who lost all of her dreams and illusions which used to make her survive yet another day for her fatherless child waiting outside in their '79 station wagon they call home...and in his ruff, washed-up voice they all find a little something that makes them sigh and nod their heads, makes them release a deep-drawn sigh and in the assurance that it will all be good one day, the mother tips the singer to play that one song she used to sing to her daughter when she couldn't fall asleep because of her hunger, to ease her pain a little bit...and in her lonely tear we too find the assurance that it'll all be good one day. Here's to you!     

Conclusion from above version: Meh, I'm quite disappointed. But that probably has a lot to with my expectations towards this dram. I actually liked the second dram even less. A boring Islay. I'd turn this down for most of the Islay standard 10 yo expressions. Maybe that's just today but if I had to rate it after these two drams and from my gut feeling, I would honestly have to say:    

Score: B- so about 83  

I actually feel kinda bad after typing that out and maybe it's just me or the day or...I don't know. Take it with whatever amount of salt you like and I hope I'll like it better tomorrow....

Inevitable question: Would I buy this again? No. Turn down when offered? No, PLT: never turn down a free Scotch. Never. Maybe you'll like it this time? Depending on the selection, I might order it at a bar (if it wasn't for the price!). Which leads me to the question, at which price point I would buy this. Probably around the price of the QC. Probably. And maybe only because this is hypothetical anyway....    



Reminds me of the Laphr 10 vs QC vs 15 vs 18 quandary.  Depends on my mood. QC for me is the best bang for the buck. 10 CS is good too. But there are times when the 15 and 18 are nice. Same for the Lore.

I suppose a mega-sbs is in order. Although I did go to a 10, 2015 Cairdeas, and Lore tasting. For me, the Lore came out slightly ahead. Is it worth the price differential, especially with the gouging going on in my area - no. 

But definitely worth sampling. (My bottle is dwindling from my imbibing and from sample swaps).



Laphroaig Lore ? 48%, $125 

Nose: Light Iodine, ash smoke, fresh jalapeno, sweet candied barley, salt, brine, light tar, light treacle, slight musty menthol snus.  

Taste: Iodine, damp ash smoke, fresh green pepper, spicy jalapeno, light herbal, slight licorice, slight seaweed. Medium mouthfeel. 

Finish: The brine and spice grow, some sweet light sherry notes come up as the smoke fades, the salt holds and makes the mouth water. Medium length. 

Notes: This is a spicy one from Laphroaig. The jalapeno note is pronounced along side some more traditional Laphroaig notes.

80/100 



/u/jn4i sent this over as part of the mystery swap.  Since there were 7 mysteries, I peaked at the last two before drinking.  Sorry!

Initial Impressions: not what I was expecting at all... Where's a good horse when you need 'im?

Price: $124.99 locally

Nose: funky rottenness leads, is it fruit or peat? Presumably sherry raisins left to rot in a bog. As it's allowed to open up, peat becomes more prominent, eventually mostly obscuring the sherry. I'm reminded of both the 2014 and the 2015 Cairdeas releases. It's earthy, it's a bit briny, with maybe a hint of some oak; no iodine though. 

Taste: extremely watery on entry, with brown sugar, of all the odd things. I can even taste malt here, which is bizarre for a Laphroaig. There's a taste now that's cousins with the traditional bandaid/iodine notes: not sure what to call it, but it's definitely medical, antiseptic in nature. Some sour fruits - citrus or tart cherries, and mud.  No smoke though.

Finish: here we have some peat smoke again, oily tar, red fruits/fruitcake, vanilla extract, and a few more medical supplies.

This is a rich and multifaceted whisky.  The various casks (bourbon, Oloroso, and quarter casks) and ages are blended well, but still observable. Unfortunately, it fell flat for me. I'm not quite sure if was a question of expectations (failure to be kicked in the face by a horse) or if the sum of the parts is simply lesser than the whole, but I'm discontent. 

Score: 84/100

Would I buy it again? No.  For $125, I think I can get a QC, a Triple Wood, and a 10 Year.  All of which I prefer.



Laphroaig Lore - Blend of first-fill sherry casks, quarter casks, and others.  Non Chill Filtered.  48% ABV

Nose: Peat, sea salt, a bit of coffee, toffee, spice cake

Palate: Massively thick and oily.  Layers upon layers upon layers of complexity.  Its hard to get it all into words there is so much going on.  And balanced perfectly.  Cherries, blackberries, oak, vanilla, baking spices, gingerbread, toffee, smoke.  So much more!

Finish: It goes on and on.  The smoke and peat and gentle sweetness.  Wonderful finish.

Score: 96/100

This is my new favorite Scotch.  Better than Octomore.  Better than Arg Nam Beist.  Just Oh My God perfect.  It was a gift from a friend as I can't find it around here yet, but when I do, I'm going to stock up on a few bottles.  Amazing!



Better than Arg Nam Beist

You lie!

but seriously, sounds delicious.



Dany, no oh wait I'm picking up Jamie, oh now it's Cersei, dang now it's Margerie, but definitely not the old fart who got arrowed on the potty. 

It's subtlety complex, not in your face. So all you macho dudes out there go swing your schwanke's somewhere else.

More inline with the 18 or 15...



This can also be titled ?How to get fucked up on Islay without even trying.? But that?s neither here nor there. The idea behind a massive SbS was spurred by my discussion with /u/toadpooh about how Laphroaig Lore stacks up against Lagavulin 16. So, without further ado, here is my side by side by side by side by side of Lagavulin 16yr, Lagavulin 8yr, Laphroaig Lore, Adrbeg Dark Cove (CR), and Ardbeg Uigeadail!

?

All were tasted neat, in a Glencairn, after resting for ~20min. Order of tasting is represented by the order of the notes below.

?

Lagavulin 16 ? 43%

?

Lagavulin 8 ? 48%

?

Laphroaig Lore ? 48%

?

Ardbeg Dark Cove (CR) ? 55%

?

Ardbeg Uigeadail ? 54.2%

?

Overall Notes: I?d call this a tie between Oog and Laga 8yr for second, with Dark Cove CR taking a slight edge over the two. I can?t complain about drinking any of these (except Lore), so the margin of victory was pretty small and I question my ability to pick out the two Ardbegs blind. I?m pretty sure I could discern the Lagas and Laprhaoig, however.

?

Bonus for those of you still reading: I mixed the last few ml of all five, here is the subsequent ?review?. Nose: plain ol? peat. Kinda mild, without much going on. Laphroaigy. Palate: sweet, smoky, slightly meaty. Also Laphroaigy. Finish: I?m sure you can guess. Dammit Lore! Opens up a bit, actually, with more of that Ardbeg character coming through, but still not as enjoyable. I used it to ?braise? a piece of steak, stay tuned for tasting notes on that experiment!



Corry

For braising steak?

Orgie is a shade lighter than oogie

Fixed, thanks!

e150

Yeah, figured as much, but don't really GAF.



I had them SBS in a bar. I'm pretty sure the bottles had been open for a good while.

I definitely preferred the Corry - Uigeadail just seemed weak in comparison... 

Link to review



Nice!

I'll need to go back and revisit Corry - luckily it's available for ~$70 on the west coast, so if it's on par/slightly better than Oog and DC, it's a hell of a bottle at that price.



I do love a good SBS.

nice review! 



Don't see a batch listed anywhere on mine - guessing it's a 2014 bottling, 52.4% abv.

What's the ABV on L6-7?



The batch number is usually on the bottle itself as an etched set of alphanumerical digits.

54.2%, we have different batches here in AUS (and I think a few other countries).



Hi Scotchit! One of my favorite distilleries is quite into NAS now, and instead of giving an age statement they are mixing lots of different casks into their new expressions. Decide for yourself if that's a good thing, maybe my tasting notes can give you some hints:

Laphroaig Select

Islay, 40%

Aged in a combination of Oloroso Sherry butts, American white oak, PX hogsheads, quarter casks and first fill Bourbon casks.

color: gold

nose: peat smoke, medicinal, cocoa powder, lime, honey, vanilla, artificial sweetener

taste: ash, black tea, roasted peanuts, vanilla, honey, milk chocolate

finish: short

As expected not great, but not bad either. Almost seems as if the different casks are neutralizing each other.

78/100

Laphroaig Lore

Islay, 48%

Non chill-filtered. Matured in quarter casks, sherry casks and refill bourbon casks.

color: gold

nose: peat smoke, medicinal, beach, burnt licorice, dark chocolate, marzipan, pepper, chestnuts, machine room

taste: ash, rock, lemon, peat smoke, salt, dry apples, bell pepper, ginger, yew tree, medicinal, cucumber, chicory

finish: hint of chili, bell pepper, ginger, hint of pineapple, aniseed, licorice

Rich nose. Ashy arrival and a medicinal development. Not the longest finish. Dangerously drinkable.

86/100

Both not bad, but way not as great as the standard 10 yo, or the CS. It's good to have some variations, but with Laphroaig it's enough now imo. Recently a Four Oak popped up with 40%... Pfft..



Thanks.

Some of them, look in the archives. Cheers.



These are part of my post about my trip to Laphroaig, but I didn't have space for all the text, so here are the 2 whiskies I took notes for:

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2016 Madeira

Aged 3 years *. 51.6%ABV. Matured in ex-bourbon casks and finished in Madeira hogsheads. No colourant added, non-chill filtered and bottled at cask strength.
*for lack of age statement although we were told it?s around 10-11 years old

Nose: Slight farmy note, refined, not the big, bold notes usually found in a Laphroaig. Bit of a sweet oily nose, like sage oil. Spicy. Cinnamon. Pepper. Salt. Ozone.

Palate: More Laphroaig here mineral peat and medicinal notes. Juicy, sweet red fruits. Cinnamon. Cough syrup.

Finish: Long. Farmy. Anise. Spice. Cherry cough syrup.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 3/5

This wasn?t a bad whisky at all, but it was very light and full of sweet herbal notes. For me that just didn?t sit right with the Laphroaig profile, so not a bad whisky, just not to my tastes, so I passed up on buying a bottle at the distillery.

Laphroaig Lore

Aged 3 years * . 48%ABV. Non-chill filetered.

*for lack of age statement

Nose: Earthy Peat, typical Laphroaig, but mixed with quite a strong fruity note. Slightly floral. Soot. Apple cider. Yellow cherries.

Palate: Very ashy. Wet earth. Juicy fruits. Fried mushrooms. Crisp lager.

Finish: Long. Ash. Oil smoke. Wet wood. Seaweed.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 2/5

This was a really nice dram and it does emphasise the whole Laphroaig profile quite well, very medicinal and peaty but with some sweeter notes as well. The higher ABV and no chill filtration means it is very rich as the box says. But it?s just not as good as a whisky almost twice the price of the 10-year-old cask strength should be.

Reviewed in my blog:
https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2016/07/17/my-islay-trip-part-3-laphroaig/



This is Laphroaig?s latest NAS offering, bottled at 46% 48%. Typically I?m a Laphroaig fan, but a new NAS for $120 reeeeeally rubs me the wrong way. That said...some age stated stuff isn?t anything to write home about, and Ardbeg Uigeadail, so let?s see what the juice is like. Thanks to /u/Marcovici for the sample.

Nose - Has all the classic Laphroaig notes, but with some extra sherried fruitiness, that has a way of rounding off the Laphroaigy-ness (if you know what I mean). Raisin, heavily smoked pork, black and white pepper, ocean, pickled ginger, maybe some lemon.

Taste - Starts pretty gentle for a Laphroaig - too gentle if you ask me. There?s a chocolate covered raisin note that leads off, with the more typical notes - heavily smoked pork, oranges, black and white pepper, sea saltiness, and ginger - coming in as it develops. Surprisingly light body, though there?s still more weight here than with a JW or Glenfiddich, and it?s fairly oily. Lacks the oomph Laphroaig typically packs.

Finish - The sea salt, black and white pepper, smoke, orange, chocolate covered raisin, and mild citrus notes all work together here, without any one of them really more prominent than the others. As it lingers, it becomes somewhat bacon-like.

So I like this, but truth be told, I?m pretty underwhelmed. I tried this SBS with the 10 CS, and it?s not a competitive matchup, as the 10 CS has so much more fullness to the flavor. I know this has got some positive reviews, but honestly, I?d just as soon have the standard 10. I won?t be buying this.

86/100



Sorry for causing even more confusion, been drinking. 10 CS is easily the best Laphroaig on the market outside of IBs. Better than any of the Cairdeas releases,  15 and 18. 18 inches close.

Edit: personal opinion



10 CS is easily the best Laphroaig on the market outside of IBs.

Yep.



Hello again,

Some Laphroaig's from the show today. Already reviewed the Masterpeices bottling, and these are the other two I had at the show.

Been curious to try the Lore after some crazy good reviews.

?

Laphroaig Lore 48%

Colour: Gold

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Typical, sea shore, Islay malting floor, some fruit, some plasters.

Taste: Soft, smoky, medicinal and mineral development, plasters, sea water, wet rocks.

Finish: Medium/Long length. Peat and malt.

75/100

I'll have a quarter cask over this, please.

?

Laphroaig 2001 Hunter Laing 1st Editions 59.8%

Colour: Gold

Body: Full

Nose: LAPHROAIG! It's a big, peaty brute. Mineral, sea shore, some medicinal notes with creamy biscuit. Everything I wanted from the Lore turned up to 10.

Taste: Bam! Medicinal, creamy, mineral sea shore notes, iodine, plasters. Really sings, was this matured in Laph's no.1 warehouse?

Finish: Medium/Long length. Recedes, creamy and medicinal.

87/100

Everything I was looking for from a Laphroaig. Really think they peak at this age, 15-16. Unfortunately the price is high at ?160 but the quality is high too... 

Reviews #205-#206



Network Average: 75.5

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



As Slandy said, you've got your terms mixed up. It's a common misconception. 

A blended scotch whisky is single malt blended with grain whisky, grain whisky from different distilleries blended together, or single malts from different distilleries blended together (this last kind used to be called a vatted malt, and is now called blended malt IIRC). Blending different barrels of malt whisky from the same distillery still yields a single malt whisky, and that is absolutely what is happening with all of the whiskies you described as well as Laphroaig 10. When a bottle of whisky contains single malt whisky from a single distillery that only came from one barrel in it's entirety, that is called a Single Cask whisky. Single Cask Scotch is prized for its uniqueness and individuality, and is by definition released in very small quantities due to the small number of bottles per barrel. 

Of course, a single product line can be single cask per bottle but contain many barrel's worth of bottles, but this is more common with single barrel bourbon than single cask scotch. Scotch distilleries tend to release a consistent product in a large batch or one-off single cask products.

Edit: Some imprecise wording is giving /u/slanderousu heart palpitations, so I'll clarify a few other things even though he's probably the only person who will ever read this.

There are five categories of scotch:

Single cask is a subset of categories 1 and 2, where the single malt or single grain came entirely from one cask. While there are large volume product lines of single casks (Balvenie 12/15 Single Barrel, GlenDronach Single Casks), much of the time single casks come from independent bottlers who are bottling just one cask. 



No worries, I only meant to clarify because you said:

I was not particularly interested to try this expression, primarily because it's a blend

There is a common sentiment that blended scotch is frequently boring and of low quality, so I just meant to specify that Lore is a single malt. I got a little carried away with the details. 



I stand duly corrected. I hope that the next time I confuse the dictionary definition with the jargon definition someone will point it out as diligently as you guys have. 

Never the less, the fact that there are two or more different styles of maturation and spirits from different types of casks combined into a particular whisky bottling, as described by Laphroaig on their website and packaging, as well as having been described by various sales representatives dealing with Laphroaig, is what I was talking about in my lame description of Lore. If you substitute the word "marriage" for the word "blend" in what I wrote, do you think it has any validity?



FWIW, the only real difference between Lore (as it is described) and bottles like QC is that they're bringing lots of different styles together on the Lore.  QC, Triple Wood, etc, they're all varying barrels brought together to meet a profile - some of them may even be from other styles so Lore is unique only because of how it is marketed - Laphroaig may use any barrels they want in any release as long as it matches an age statement if it has one.  

Laphroaig Select is like a lower proof version of Lore and it is atrocious so I would agree that a good bottle of Lore would be a bit of a surprise.  I didn't care for mine and some people love them - so I think they may have done separate batches.