Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin 51.2%

The second Cairdeas, which, according to the bottle-

combines some of the original liquid used to first create C?irdeas, further matured and complimented with newer Laphroaig spirit that has been fully matured in quarter casks.

I really like the QC so hopefully I'll enjoy this. NCF, CS?, Natural colour. 

Just good Laphroaig, perfectly balanced. Nothing fancy, great Islay aromas. Sweetness and brine the stars here 

Mmmmm. Classic Laphroaig delivered excellently. Salty, sweet, umami goodness.

Fab. Simple, lovely. A little better than the other Cairdeas's I've had. 93/100



Regarding cask strength, this is not.  On second thought, it's possible, but i doubt it.  The Cairdeas line is bottled at about 50% with the trailer being the release year. This was 2012, the portwood, 2013, is 51.3%, and the latest amontillado from 2014 is 51.4%.  Or so the story goes.

My local shop has a few left and based in this I might have to pick one up.



Reviews #108, 109 & 110

Hello everyone, today I?ve got a trio from the powerhouse that is Laphroaig! You can view some of my other Laphroaig reviews here:

Laphroaig 10

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength

Laphroaig 10 Murray McDavid

Laphroaig 18

Laphroaig 25 Cask Strength

Laphroaig Cairdeas Ileach Edition

Laphroaig Quarter Cask

Here goes something:

Laphroaig C?irdeas Origin (2012), 51.2% abv, Islay

Nose: Hay, raw soy beans, pumpkin spice, whipping cream. Dusty iodine and creamy peat, Keebler saltine crackers. Toasted leather, cigar ash, mahogany, shellac. Bit of a raisin-bran vibe kicking about.

Palate: Quite spicy, smoldering peat embers, acidic wood ash, tart cr?me, very bitter floral profile. Dry white oak, charred banana peel, white pepper, paprika, olive oil steep with red chili?s.

Finish: Bitter, drying. Acidic still? undulating waves of nutty wood followed by bitter wood. Salty sour peat, slight medicinal edge. Raw ginger, leather conditioner, tweed.

90/100

Not my favorite Laphroaig but very damned tasty. Thanks to /u/Uncletobys for this sample!

Laphroaig PX Cask Travel Retail, 48% abv, Islay

Nose: Syrupy sherry, extremely creamy? rich peat pudding, candied figs, hazelnut butter, salty milk chocolate? orange tree aroma and pear skin. Musty old basement clothes.

Palate: Sherry up front, quite dull at first but opens up nicely with spicy peat and a mellow toasty oak. Oily but moves quick. Antiseptic sweetness, clamato juice with molasses stirred in, pipe tobacco.

Finish: Slightly bitter, turns to a cooling mintyness. Lingering woody smoke, a touch of iodine and sulfur. Tobacco and black tea lingers about.

92/100

I seem to like this a bit more than most people, it?s very good. Thanks again to /u/Uncletobys for this sample!

Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood (2013), 51.3% abv, Islay

Nose: Bursting juicy fruits. Quite alive? rich heavy wine. Looming earthy peat with vanilla frosting and fresh smoke. Summer melon, estuary sediment and sea air, mineral spirits. Distinct salty caramel note keeps popping out at me

Palate: Heavy wine, burdened with spicy peat. Raisin bread, chipotle powder, lemon rind, nutty? macadamia and pecan.

Finish: Nuttiness carries straight through? raspberries in tangy yogurt, earthy ash. Doctors office, hospital corridor. Peppery edge, some bitter minty undertones but they don?t offensively jump out thankfully. 

93/100

A little let down by this soley because of the hype. When I stand back and look at the whole picture it?s really a fantastic dram? shame it?s going to get so hard to find soon. Thanks again to /u/Texacer for this sample!



Great reviews! I definitely agree on the portwood being overhyped, but 93 (I gave it 93-94) is nothing to scoff at!

It is nice to see all of these above 90 though. Laphroaig really knows what they are doing.



Certainly so! And especially considering the initial price it was released at! shame it's so limited though.

I've yet to be dissapointed by Laphroaig, they're quickly overtaking my #1 favorite peated slot (Kocking Ardbeg off the throne).



Laphroaig Cairdeas / 51.2% / 2012

Tasted neat/bottled water

A celebratory bottling of origin Cairdeas (13-21 yr) with newer Laphroaig spirit from quarter casks, it's a tastier alternative to the regular bottlings.  The name means "Friendship."

The mood is Hail Mary by Young Jeezy on DJ Capcom's War Strategy 4

This is a delicious, lighter, friendlier Laphroaig--the Cask strength is essential.  It's unusually pleasant for a single malt that has often garnered accolades like "bandaids", "rubbing alcohol", and "tar."  The cleanness of this malt is improved, but yet nowhere near the Lagavulin 12.

Rating: 87/100

72nd review



Let's follow up the Quarter Cask review with another Laphroaig. This time, it's the Cairdeas Origin release for 2012. There are a couple Cairdeas releases out there, but this one in particular I believe is a vatting of Laphroaig from 13 to 21 years of age. I've stated previously that I like generally like my Laphroaig a bit older than other Islays. So if the older whisky in this vatting holds its own, we may have a winner on our hands!

LAPHROAIG CAIRDEAS ORIGIN 2012

Color:

ABV: 51.2%

Aroma Neat:

Sticky Peat, Charcoal, Smoked Fish, Smoked Pork, Chili Powder, Paprika (slightly), Varnished Wood, Raw Barley, Grass/Green Hay, Barnyard/Manure, Mustard Seed/Brown Mustard, Applewood Smoked Bacon, Cooked Apples (with brown sugar), Gasoline, Greasy Coal, Sharpie Marker.

Peaty and meaty, more so than the QC, but with less iodine. Some surprisingly green/malty notes emerge with some time in the glass. Even with all the peat some spirit is still evident! For those who don't drink a lot of whisky, manure can actually be a positive note in whisky! Sounds crazy! Overall a very well rounded yet complex and interesting nose.

Aroma Water:

Sweet Peat, Brown Sugar/Fresh Caramel, Metal Filings, Iodine, Smoked Honey, Wood Smoke/Fireplace, Hot Asphalt/Thick Tar, Savory/Fatty Smoked Meats, Vanilla (slighty), Charred Oak, Gas, Dirty Oil, Honeydew Melon (very slightly), Phenolic Malt Barley. 

Wow, the change with water is immense. Sweet, almost sherried notes come out. Laphroaig, to my knowledge, doesn't make much use of sherry casks. I'd be very interested to hear if there were any involved in this vatting... After a little while, things become peatier and drier again, though never quite as dry as neat.

Taste Neat:

Dry Peat, Coal/Coal Smoke, Tangy Wood Smoke, Metal Shavings, Heavy Barrel Char, Dry Oak (med tannins), Dusty Black Pepper (very much so), TCP.

Wooo! Another Laphroaig that really delivers on the palate. Super dry with a lot of burn wood to be found and enough pepper to put Talisker 10 to shame. Well, there's a lot of pepper. It's pretty hard to put Talisker to shame!

Taste Water:

Dry Peat, Stale Ash, Oak (med tannins), Gravel, Minerality, Charcoal/Grill Smoke, Salted Fish, Seaweed, Grilled Eel, Creamy Malt, Old Mushy Bananas (slightly), 

The palate remains much the same with water, but coastal influence is a little more evident.

Finish:

Dry Ash (very), Charcoal and Charcoal Dust, Fatty Smoked Fish, Metallic, Mineralic, Old Tobacco (hint), Iodine.

Stellar finish, that's dry as bone, metallic, ashy, and more.

Conclusion:

Excellent whisky that delivers a satisfying experience in every aspect, aroma, taste, and finish.

Big flavors, as expected from Laphroaig. For people who already love Islay whisky!

Rating: 93/100

Very, very good whisky. Nay, excellent whisky. It's one of the best Laphroaig whiskies I've tasted, if not the best. If you love smoky, peaty, "big" whisky, this is a solid choice.

Josh

blog



This bottle came from www.astorwines.com when it first came out, for about $60. A couple weeks later I looked and it had gone up to $75, now it appears to be gone all together.

Definitely a worthy one to add to the collection though if you can find it.



Agreed, thanks again.

I'd buy two if I could find it for 75!



Just did some looking, www.hudsonwinemarket.com appears to have the Cairdeas but it's pricey at $89. After shipping that'd be pretty expensive.

www.hitimewine.net also appears to have it and they are only $69.

Honestly though, I can get the Triple Wood locally for $50 and think that's pretty outstanding, I'd probably just get that if I get another Laphroaig :)



Awesome review. I'm having some of this right now. Couldn't agree more with your words. I could see some people being really turned off by this one - it's almost too much, but behind the thick smog of industrial notes and apocalyptic vapors there's quite a bit more going on for those so inured.

I had my bourbon-loving step dad try a sip of this once. He almost slapped the teeth out of me.



Very industrial, great descriptor. Coastal industrial.

It's dry, astringent whisky. Which is my favorite. I love a good bourbon, but "bourbon people" would probably check my chin if I put this in front of them. 



Laphraoig Cairdeas Origins

Nose: smoke, peat, bourbon, wine, toffee, cream, brine, pepper, coconut, cream.

Palate: smooth, bright, peat, smoke, liquorice, vanilla, chai.

Finish: Peat, smoke, cinnamon, anise, cayenne, long smokey and peaty finish.

Very nice and complex.  Some fruity notes that aren't so common in Laphroaig as well as some spices that almost suggest a sherry influence.  Also, I had no idea the abv was so high when I was drinking this.

abv is 51.2

88/100

Laphroaig 10

Nose: Bourbon, smoke, peat, iodine, cough medicine, shoes, sweet berries, mint, ocean water, pine, sea weed.

Palate: Smoke, peat, brown sugar, molasses, mint toothpaste, clementine oranges, canvas, iodine.

Palate: Tar, white sugar, smoke, peat, rubbing alcohol, fire.

Laphroaig is one of my favourite distilleries yet I think the standard 10 year old is my least favourite of their expressions.  It's still quite good, but the 10 year old cask strength and the Quarter Cask are significantly better than this.  Perhaps an abv higher than 40% would help, but again, that's what the Cask Strength is for!

86/100

Laphroaig 18

Nose: Smoke, peat, wine, maraschino cherries.

Palate: Sugar, smoke, peat, liquorice, grapes, grape juice, iodine, bandaids, black pepper.

Finish: wood, strawberry, blackberries, bourbon, peat, ocean muck, herbs, ash.

Abv is a generous 48%, yet this remains incredibly smooth.  In ways, this actually reminds me a little bit of the Lagavulin 16.  Laphroaig's distinctive smoke, peat, and iodine qualities are still present, but they've given way to a smoother, less abrasive, profile.  Another strange note on the 18 is that it seems far less complex than other Laphroaig offerings.  It has mellowed into something rich, smooth, and simple.  I really like Laphroaig, and I really like the 18 (in fact, it's my second favourite expression from the distillery), yet it doesn't embody the qualities of Laphroaig that I love.  I would love to try an even older expression from Laphroaig.  

90/100

Other Laphroaig reviews:

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength Batch 4 - 91/100

Laphroaig Battlehill 13 - 88/100

Laphroaig Quarter Cask - 89/100



it's my second favourite expression from the distillery

ok, I'll bite... what's the favorite?



ah, yeah, that Lagavulin story was more to say that if I ordered an 002 or an 005 who knows what I would wind up with, could be an 004 for all I know.  Roll the dice!

I'll keep an eye on your reviews, but the Laphroaig CS is starting to sound more and more interesting.



dur... yup, I should have seen that.  /me points to empty glass to explain

my appologies...



After a bit of time away from /r/Scotch reviews due to bourbon and stomach flu (no relation) I decided to review a few scotch samples tonight. I picked three in matching clear sample bottles because it amused me to match them up that way.

Tomtintoul 10

Initial Impressions: Apple-y as expected of Speyside

Price: can't get it here, but thank you /u/tintin777 for the sample

Nose: some apples, but that is overridden by an overripe fruit (apples and bananas) smell. Fresh grains, earth and growing things (the phrase "God's green earth" comes to mind for some reason) and some weird yeast (malty?) grain scent.

Mouthfeel: medium thick, pleasant on the tongue

Taste: nice sweet entry, with a hint of vanilla in pears and apples. A slice of fresh bread (slightly undercooked so it's soft and yeasty still) with jam and raisins - very sweet and no burn, but a very very quick flash of black pepper.

Finish: sweet trailing fruit flavors, only a very tiny hint of burn in the throat, and aftertaste of apple or pear jelly.

When I was a teen, not yet old enough to drink, my friends and I used to frequent a coffee shop which served Mexican sodas. This dram reminds me of drinking the sangria and apple sodas in alternating sips - two apples with a sangria between. Tomintoul's "The gentle dram" branding fits perfectly - it's not the kind of scotch that blasts in the face with something unusual, it's just a nice Speyside. And sometimes that's just what I need in my glass.

Score: 88/100

Would I buy it again? Dunno. Maybe. If it was on the shelf beside The Glenlivet 15 for $45 I'd probably pick it up once every three or four times I looked at the pair. But Im sure it'll be $65 if it ever arrives in PA and at that price, it's probably a pass.

Ben Riach 12

Initial Impressions: salt. Wtf?

Price: It's weird - I have access to a bunch of other BenRiach expressions, but not this one. This is another sample courtesy of /u/tintin777 Thanks almost anonymous person from the internet!

Nose: much more laid back (delicate is, I think, the correct word?) than the previous dram. A bit of alcohol up front. Salt again. Vanilla and cinnamon, with something sour hiding beneath.

Mouthfeel: thin

Taste: lightly salted bourbon flavors - vanilla, oak, caramel. Cinnamon, and fairly sweet, but more of a sugar sweetness (as in caramel vanilla) than fruit. 

Finish: here we get a flash of fruit, apples, then a slight burn of alcohol. The aftertaste touches cinnamon, vanilla, and crisp green apples on the way out

A weak nose, but a tasty finish. In reading other reviews, I feel like the notes are all over the place. It's almost like it's so weak and inoffensive that everybody finds something different in it. I could see myself getting this confused with Weller 12 in a blind tasting. I'm just saying.

Not sure if the salt would have been as noticeable if I'd done these first two in the opposite order; I'll have to eventually redo this one I think. For now, a B.

Score: 82

Would I buy it again? Not sure I would, even if I could. If it was cheap, maybe, but I don't think it would be. I'm sure I'll want to sample it again one day.

Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin

And now for something completely different. Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin was one of the first two Laphroaig expressions I tasted. In those days when I wasn't yet keeping tasting notes, I had samples of Origin and Quarter Cask. Thanks to /u/xpentax for this, my second sample of Cairdeas Origin.

Nose: peat, a hint of smoke, earth and coal. Surprisingly less iodine than expected. 

Taste: distinctly Laphroaig, with peat smoke and salt. Hints of vanilla and some leathery fruit (oranges and maybe lemons). Sweeter than some Laphroaigs I've had, brown sugar/burnt sugar.

Finish: a decent burn tapering off to a nice warm aftertaste of peat smoke and sugar

Older than the quarter cask and I believe also older than the other Cairdeas' I've had, Origin has mellowed out and left it's medicinal notes behind. The result is something quite good that makes me really look forward to the 18 year old I've got in the bunker.

Score: 90/100

Would I buy it again? That ship has sailed, I fear, but I will be paying attention to every year's Cairdeas release, I am sure.

I feel like my last review was slightly rushed- three in a row might be a bit much. But an enjoyable evening scotch session to be sure. I wish I altered the order of the first two, but no serious regrets.



Greetings Scotchit! So, the big nine-oh was 1 review away and I just couldn't wait. I clearly couldn't review anything subtle after the sherry bruiser that was the Aberlour 12 NCF, and I didn't want to open too many bottles today. So I browsed my samples - all the ones I ordered were so pedestrian that I just couldn't bring myself to do it for #90.

But then, wait, what's this? A Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin sample that I received from UncleTobys 4 months ago? That will work nicely. For those not in the know, the Origin was last year's Cairdeas release, timed to hit just when Feis Ile hits Islay. It's a bit gimmicky, in that it apparently contains whisky that would have been included in the first Laphroaig Cairdeas release in 1994. 

Who cares, though... The important question is: Is the whisky any good?

Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin
Islay, 51.2% ABV, NCF, no E150, 50cl sample from /u/UncleTobys

Nose: Huge. Alcohol bite. Carbolic smoke and dry, dusty peat. Dirt and burning rubber. Smoked meat. Mineralic and a hint of vanilla. Hint of pears. A slight hint of sherry?

Wow was my first reaction. Holy shit was my second one. Incredible dry peat, a Kilchoman 100% Islay turned up to 12. Amazing. This is incredible - a wonderfully dry Laphroaig. 

Taste: Dry mouthfeel. Dry and dusty. Dirt and smoked meats. Slight caramel sweetness. Peated barley. Citrus and orange rind. Again, a hint of sherry.

This is really good. Tastes old, but really powerful and vibrant at the same time. I really, really like this profile as my frequent Kilchoman reviews show. Can't get enough of this, in fact.

Finish: Ethereal, but long. Dry and carbolic smoke. Dusty and musty earth. Slight citrus and brown sugar. Old oak. 

Still tastes old and dry. Wonderful; literally my favourite type of profile. This is heavily, heavily peated, but age has taken the iodine kick out of the finish. Burns slightly on the tongue as well as in the throat, which implies that this contains some young whisky in the vatting. 

Summary: Despite being a cask strength whisky, this requires no water. This isn't available anymore, except at auction. I may try to pick one up at auction, but at the same time I'm probably going to buy the 1989 Vintage that's only been released in Scandinavia, which shares a similar profile. 

I love old Laphroaigs, unfortunately. Not a cheap hobby, this. Not my favourite whisky of all time, but pretty fucking close. Seriously, I love this.

Score: 95/100
Epic.

Previous Laphroaig reviews:



You gotta ask to get heard around here. Cheers, dude. =)

10 more!



Boy, I've seen bottles of this lately around town for around $80.  I just picked up three bottles of this year's port wood offering, and I'm seriously considering grabbing some of last year's, too.  Sounds like a great whisky.  Probably have to head out to the store later. . .

P.S. Congrats on #90, and nice review.  



That's a really good price. 

I feel this was definitely underrated when it was released, unlike the Portwood.



I?ve never actually reviewed any OB Laphroaigs willingly, but Swinse sent me QC as a mystery dram and ruined everything. Bastard. I was going to do a super awesome Laphroaig special for my 200th review with 4 different Cairdeas, 10yo at 40% and 43% ABV, 3 batches of 10CS, 15 (my favourite), 18, and 25CS, but then I realised it's too much work and too many open bottles. Too bad.

199th will be a Brora and 200th will be Glenfarclas 105 20yo.

A big thank you to bigmoneysalsa for the bottle and sample of the Cairdeas Port Wood. I love you.

Laphroaig Triple Wood, 48% ABV

Bourbon + Quarter Casks + Oloroso = Triple Wood.

Nose: Creme brulee. Soft medicinal peat smoke. New plastic and rubber. Dried mango and longan. Lingzhi. Toffee apple. Faint vanilla. Jasmine & Oolong tea. Honey roasted nuts. Smouldering charcoal. Salty green olives and seaweed cut through the otherwise very sweet nose.

Taste: Medium bodied with a silky mouthfeel. Salted toffee and vanilla custard. Tangy tangerine. Glace ginger. Very subtle sherry-like dried fruits and spices. Melon and orange rind. Some musty, yet peppery oak. Woody and smoky, rather than a TCP peat explosion.

Finish: Light earthy peat with a floral edge. Burnt nuts. Sarsaparilla. Medium length, sweet and smoky.

More refined and delicate compared to QC but I enjoy them equally. Same score.

88/100

Laphroaig PX Cask, 48% ABV

Bourbon + QC + PX. So, pretty much the same maturation process as TW but with PX rather than Oloroso.

Nose: Similar to TW but even sweeter. Dried figs. New plastic. Aloe and cut grass. Grapefruit. Toffee apple and burnt brown sugar. Stronger vanilla than TW. Soft medicinal peat and burning charcoal. Black tea with sugar. Salted nori. Menthol cigarettes.

Taste: Medium bodied, sweet and spicy. Marmalade on burnt toast. Berry tart. Vanilla essence. Fresh oak and cedar. Sweet jammy red wine notes. Salty preserved lemon. Macchiato with raw sugar. Distant peat smoke and sweet cigar spices.

Finish: Oaky spices and winey tannins. Salty, medicinal peat. Sweet fruitcake-like cigar smoke, like a well-aged Ramon Allones. Sage and bay leaves. Medium length and ashy.

I had high hopes for this one and it took me ages to get a bottle. It?s still a good whisky but it?s not much better than TW or QC. In fact, I?d rate them all the same. 

88/100

Laproaig Cairdeas Origin, 51.2% ABV

Bottled in 2012 to celebrate the 18th anniversary of the FOL programme, it combines the original spirit used to create the first Cairdeas, mixed with newer spirit matured in quarter casks.

Nose: A very fresh Laphroaig?floral and grassy?almost like a young untainted CS Bowmore. Fruity initially with some rockmelon, cucumber and aloe. Crispy green apples and pears. Turns ashy and phenolic. Cedar smoke. Salted nori. Rubber and new plastic. Vicks Vaporub. Some meatiness in the background, similar to Mexican food.

Taste: Full bodied, tangy and viscous. Phenolic peat smoke. Fresh melon and grass. Rhubarb pie with vanilla cream. Charred oak and pine. Crisp apples and pears. Mixed peel. Ginger and mild jalapeno spiciness. Dry and ashy going into the finish. Also quite salty and a bit rubbery.

Finish: Anise and earthy dried herbs. Some liquorice. Medicinal and peaty. Long and dry, with lingering grassy green tobacco.

Great stuff. It took me a while to warm up to this, but as soon as I did, I ordered more. 

No fancy finishes, just pure Laphroaig.

91/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Port Wood, 51.3% ABV

Matured in ex-bourbon for 8 years and finished in port pipes for 14 months. Bottled in 2013.

Nose: The port arrives first with notes of dried berries and figs, with a hint of chocolate. Citric and tart: lime juice and leaves. Plastic and rubber. Green peppercorns. Fresh flowers, dried grass and dead leaves. Earthy peat, iodine and brine take a backseat.

Taste: Medium-full bodied and hot on the palate. Tannic, peppery oak. San Pellegrino Aranciata Rossa... maybe even some Chinotto bitterness. Apricot and grapefruit skin. Wheatgrass and honey. Grilled fennel over charcoal. Leather. Floral and sweet peat mixed with salty seaweed. Almond and tea tree oil at the back.

Finish: Mulberries and lemon zest. Earthy peat smoke. Cinnamon, aniseed, saffron and bay leaves. Coffee and cigarettes. Long and warm with umami-like savoury MSG notes.

I expected this to have more rich porty sweetness. Instead, it?s sour and citrusy with a savoury finish.

Very good, but not like omg-this-is-the-best-thing-ever good.

90/100

Review 195-198



More refined and delicate compared to QC

Perfectly put about the Triple Wood.



I liked the Triplewood as well. Maybe a little more so than the QC, but the price increase isn't really worth it. 

Portwood is all hype. 



Portwood is all hype.

True, but it's still very good, just not #TOTESAMAZEBALLSTHISISAWESOME



QA is no big deal. I asked about it when I was at Laphroaig and they didn't want to bring it up, apparently it was a bit of an embarrassment for them.

It's kind of the Blasda of Laphroaig.



It's kind of the Blasda of Laphroaig.

http://i.imgur.com/wGk0G.gif



Mine's smoke and ash all the way down, with hints of meatiness and spice.

I got those notes too! With bonus fruit.



Wait until /u/texacer hears about this...

He LOVED him some Cairdeas



Preferably something I don't have. I currently own bottles from the following distilleries:

UPDATE - I have ordered the following:

THANKS FOR PLAYING!



Glencadam! The 15 was damn tasty.

And I was joking about PE. 14 isn't even out yet.



I thought you meant a 14yo PE. Silly me.

I'm ashamed to say I've never tried a Glencadam. It's always been on my radar but I never got around to it. Shortlisted.



Auchroisk?

I've got a bottle of the Flora and Forna 10yo here and it's great. Could review it for you tonight if you wanna wait.



I could recommend something more expensive if you like ;) but it really is a cracker. 

Soft, fruity and with a big clove spice.



Cheap is good! I'm going to order it, can't be bothered waiting for your review.

Current Cart Status: 



I almost ordered a Miltonduff when I was ordering more Amruts. Maybe it was a Macduff. Can't remember.

Banff is sorta hard to find and expensive. I've been looking, with not much luck.



Pretty sure you missed Ardbeg. =)

Tamnavulin? Teaninich? Balmenach? Fettercairn? Deanston?

Granted, all of those have terrible reputations, but oh well.



Good catch, added.

I won a sample of this unreleased SMWS Balmenach when I guessed a couple of whiskies at a tasting. It's kinda crappy.

The two T's are a bit ehhh. Almost ordered a Fettercairn once. Tried a few Deanstons and I'm not in a hurry to order any.



I'm just listing distilleries, to be fair. I've had a Deanston and Teaninich, not the rest.

Loch Lomond. Braeval (tried one, not good). Tullibardine (legit quite good). Tomintoul (not great).



I've tried Inchmurrin (Loch Lomond) and it's pretty nice. Also tried a couple Braevel (Braes of Glenlivet). Tomintoul 14 and Peaty Tang are good.

I don't think I've had a Tullibardine. Which one to get?



I had their entry level Sovereign and liked it - simple, clean, malty. 

Ordered a sample of the Rum Finish recently. 



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  I've put this one off for about 7 months.  I got the Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin 102.4 proof back in December.  Every year Laphroaig puts out a special bottling now to celebrate at its feis festival thingy.  this one is called Origin because it includes whiskys from the first one 18 years ago.  it is also blended with the Quarter Cask at Cask Strength.  theres no way I wouldn't love this, being a big Laphroiag Fanboy. 

tiny tiny bit rougher than QC but excellent. QC is savorier because of the lower abv.  I hemmed and hawed too long over this score but I have to go with my instincts.  

97/100

Laphroaig 10 - 90/100

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength - 95/100

Laphroaig 11 signatory - 92/100

Laphroaig 13 Battlehill - 89/100

Laphroaig 15 - 93/100

Laphroaig 16 signatory - 95/100

Laphroaig 18 - 92/100

Laphroaig 25 Cask Strength 2008 - 93/100

Laphroaig 27 Oloroso - 95/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Ileach - 93/100

Laphroaig Quarter Cask - 98/100

Laphroaig Triplewood - 92/100

Laphroaig SWS 29.92 sweet and smoky intensity - 95/100

next stop...portwood



Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin

Thanks to the person who made this swap happen (they've been asked not to be mentioned) for this swap!

So I'd be remiss if I talked about some (not all) of the special editions if I didn't try mentioned and review some of the (not all) Cairdeas offerings.

But first: What the heck is Cairdeas? Well it's the word for Friendship in Gaelic. Make sense? Not really. Well, it was made for the distillery's popular friends program. And comes out during the Feis Ile festival as a special edition. It's been going on since 2008. 

So we'll start with Laphroaig Cairdeas Origin. This is from Feis Ile 2012. It's NAS. There's rumors that half of it spent 7 years in Quarter casks and the other half in refill ex-bourbon casks for 13-21 years.

So that's a little crazy. A cask strength Quarter Cask/Hybrid Laphroaig? This could end up bad.

Let's see how it tastes.

Price: N/A in Ontario anymore... (dammit should have bought it)

Abv: 51.2%

Colour: Butter

Nose: Peat, pear, lilac, nutmeg, sea air, prickly, kiwi, roasted pine nuts

Quite prickly. The floral notes in the 15 year is showing up again, yet the additional Abv. has added to it and ramps it up quite a bit. There's also a nutty note here.

So far, not shit. I'm impressed, this is nice and strong. My wife is not a fan.

Taste: Nutmeg, peat, cocoa, sugared lemon rind, cinnamon, pepper steak, peach, chocolate milk

If you don't like spices, or overtly spiced things, with an earthy mixture, you'd better walk away. Like my wife did (from the whisky, not me, I'm not single, don't PM me your boobs/dicks/boob dicks).

There's a chocolate milk note that Laphroaig comes up with after awhile. It eventually takes over here, and the other notes kinda take a back seat to it. However before that, it's tasty.

Finish: Peanut, salt air, anise, curry powder, peach cobbler, vanilla, smoke

It finishes with a lot of nutty, spicy, and sweet notes. All well built up. It's a good mixture of young, ovaries to the oak strength with some complexity to edge out the usual issues with youth.

Well, other than the fact that your frontal lobe doesn't develop until you hit 25 and thus you aren't able to calmly approach all situations without it going through your emotional center of your mind. But that more so applies to people and thankfully not whisky, luckily.

Conclusion: This is really tasty. It's a good blend of youth and age, it has some complexity to it, and I really, really wish I bought a bottle when I found it.

That said, it's not setting off memories. It's a definite buy, it's tasty, and at times it'll burn the shit out of you or send random spices mixed with sweetness that kinda doesn't work. I can't really bash it too much, I can only say that there is better.

86/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood 2013

Thanks to /u/Lord-of-the-manor for this hard to find dram.

Are you new here? If so, then you don't remember the sheer, ball gargling, house shopping love that comes from this whisky. Hell, it's still here.

And if I was more Hipster-esque, then seriously I'd be annoyed. However I'm not. just because something is popular doesn't mean it sucks or doesn't suck or etc, etc. Oog is amazing. Tobermory isn't that great (Editor's Note: To me). Two good examples of popular things I both agree and disagree with.

And if you feel that anything popular isn't for you automatically, I just have to say the following: All the cool kids are breathing.

I need to hand in my opinion. This could end up being the thing I hate.

Anyway, continuing on with the Friendship series, we have the 2013 Feis Ile offering, Laphroaig Cairdeas Portwood 2013, which frankly, I'm surprised I ever received. Every trade, hunt, and generally begging, failed, until I finally received it.

Twas a good day. 

Anyway, this is a ex-Bourbon cask whisky that is finished in port pipes. And if that doesn't sell you, then check your pulse, and then realize you may not like port, and that's okay.

Abv: 51.3%

Colour: Ruby maroon walnut

Nose: Plum, BBQ chicken, mesquite, dates, strawberry, mint, mustard seed, ginger, spruce trees in spring

Wow. Lots of complexity.  Tons of fruit. Much spices.

Funny doge's aside, this nose is one of the best I've encountered in a long time. The Peat and salt air from Laphroaig have developed these intricate flavours and spices and holy shit this is good.

Taste: Licorice,  strawberry, currant, peat, black cherry, cola, Salish

Not a shitty Black cherry soda either: No, I'm talking full on, tasty, real cane sugar, costs too damn much, fuck I can't have caffeine, but I want it, Black Cherry soda.

Damn I miss pop.

I'll admit, the nose is still better than the taste, yet this is a sweet, tasty dram.

Finish: Being at the beach by the ocean, eucalyptus,  cinnamon,  nutmeg, rhubarb,  watermelon, smoke, strawberry

It's odd: I lived on an island as a kid, and my mom left eucalyptus in the front hall, so I am reminded of the smell and walking into my childhood home, yet mixed with being at the beach, and I lived nowhere near a beach nor by the ocean.

So I'm confused.

Yet this is tasty. Complex fruit, tons of smoke, and yet it retains that Laphroaig identity.

Conclusion: Well... believe the hype... wait, but I'm part of the hype now, so... uh... believe me?

Go try this yourself. It's tasty. They have taken Laphroaig, evolved the different elements (brine, peat, medicinal), added in additional flavours from the port, and balanced it all. It set off memories, and has a great depth of flavour.

And yes, I'm nitpicking saying it's not as amazing as some other whiskies I have had, however it's up there as one of the best. Buy this if you can.

89/100



It's an old SNL skit-Hans and Franz? "We're here to pump you up!"

They used to say stuff like "Believe us now and understand us later!"
You said "believe the hype... wait, but I'm part of the hype now, so... uh... believe me"

I dunno. Its a weird connection.



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014

Thanks to /u/usquebaugh_ for this dram!

So we did last year's Cairdeas, which was amazing, and one of the better "new" drams I've had in a long time, this must be better, right?

And thus why I am doing these reviews, because hard to find bottles are always a roll of the dice. You never know if something is going to be really nice (see above) or really shitty (see later albums from Metallica).

Up next, Laphroaig Cairdeas 2014. They start with first-fill ex-Bourbon casks and then finished for one year in Amontillado hogsheads.

Now you might be asking: What the fucking hell does any of that mean? Where are my pants? Why can't I juggle? Why does my kid cry at night?

Well, let me answer some of your questions.

First-fill ex-bourbon means that the cask was used for bourbon, shipped to Islay, and then used for this dram. This allows more of the vanilla and sweetness to enter into the whisky. Bourbon casks reduce over time compared to sherry casks, so this is a good thing.

Amontillado is a sherry. It's characterized as being darker than Fino and lighter than Oloroso. Sherry is a fortified wine, and in this case, it's made in Spain. Not details though, however sherry's influence on a cask is harder to diminish, so it shouldn't matter as much.

Abv: 51.4%

Colour: Dull orange

Nose: Orange rind, peat, strawberry,  sea air, sugared cranberries,  vanilla

So it looks like Orange, and smells like bitter orange, and then the sugared elements of the bourbon show up and say nothing, because elements don't communicate. Though they do balance it out.

Oh, and to answer your question, your pants are probably on your legs, or on the floor. All depends on where you work, what time it is, and if you live in a glass house.

Taste: Tequila, orange juice, prickly, ginger, chili flakes,  C-plus soda, chocolate milk

Not shitty, shooting tequila; like good, properly aged silver tequila. Which isn't the first time I've had something like that. It's way too prickly too; detracts.

And that chocolate milk has shown back up again, and taken over. It's too bad, because it was growing into an interesting orange/tequila flavour.

You can't juggle because you haven't practiced enough. As this isn't /r/juggle, I'm assuming you can't. If you can, great. Note that it only really helps if you are picking up at a ren fair. Or trying to distract your boss.

Finish: Mushroom, orange, campfire, medicine, peat, cocoa

Earth. Do you like earth? Cause it's a mouth full of ash and dirt. Dirt, dirt, orange, dirt. I don't mind earth, but this is unbalanced.

What a surprise? A peated, known to be earth whisky, mixed with an earthy spirit finished whisky.

Your kid cries out for a plethora of reasons, all detailed by people who know way more than I do. It sucks, I hope it gets better, and this is one of the hundreds of reasons I'm not having kids. Maybe a muzzle will help.

Conclusion: It was a nice idea. In theory, it should work out great. Everyone likes Laphroaig PX. So they should be trying other types of sherry.

And just look at it! It glows orange, and tastes of oranges! That's pretty cool. A nice amount of acidity to bring out the different smoky elements and add to a tequila like flavoured: On paper, I'd agree to it in a second.

That said, it just doesn't work that well. The orange is bashed to the side, and the finish is unbalanced. The nose is nice, but not great. Nice try, and I look forward to next years. Good luck next time, and I hope it turns out better in the future. 

80/100

Laphroaig PX Cask

Special thanks to /u/ourknownto for a nice sized sample of this dram. I've been looking forward to it!

And finally we have another darling of /r/scotch, recommended quite a bit, Laphroaig PX Cask. This shares quite a few similarities with the triple wood: Each of these whiskies are triple oaked, and each use both Bourbon and Quarter casks as part of it.

The main difference is the type of sherry in the final casks. Triple Wood uses Oloroso, which is darker than the Amontillado sherry (see above), and has less of a yeasty taste of fino sherries, where as Pedro Xim?nez sherry is a sweet, dark, strong-ass (technical term) dessert sherry.

So it's just one little thing, right? Well... maybe. Triple Wood may use older sherry casks. Or maybe newer. Sherry casks don't lose their taste as quickly, so that may not do much. We'll have to see.

So, as I enjoy the latest Doctor Who episode in the dark, let's see if this is my darling as well.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv:48%

Colour: Reddish-gold

Nose: Sour cherry, lemon, peat, salty, anise, clove, fizzy pop bubbles, light caramel

It's really alive. Not "I'm secretly a cannibal and am drinking blood that has electricity running through it's alive or Dusk till Dawn alive drinking, this has some balls/ovaries/whatever genitalia you want to it.

Not actual genitalia.

The PX is holding up a lot better than the Oloroso or Amontillado did. It takes the forefront, and adds that much needed spice that Laphroaig sometimes forgets.

Taste: Strawberry, ash, peat, brine, cranberry, lemon peel, cream, nutmeg

Yeah, the campfire is there, and someone put some cedar in it, so you've got smoke and ash in your throat. What else do we expect from Laphroaig?

Very creamy. And there's no chocolate milk barging in, taking over. Quite nice. Not too over the top on complexity, though nice.

Finish: Anise, black cherry, ash, club soda, basil, earth, lemon, oregano

Finishes with the same earthiness that I've come to expect from a sherried whisky, without overdoing it too much. Still has some character from before. Didn't get left out, like that one little nice kid in To Kill a Mockingbird, who defends Scout in class from the Eule boy and then never shows up again. Waste of a character, if you ask me.

Conclusion: This is very, very similar in taste, texture, and nose to Lagavulin 16. It's creamy, not too strong, has some nice dark fruit notes, and finishes with some earthniness. It's not as ballsy as Lagavulin 16, which is nice. Basically they are both very similar, and you can't go wrong with one if you like the other. Solid from start to finish, with just some moments where the taste missed the mark.

85/100

Scotch review #195-200, Islay review #47-52

Other Laphroaig reviews:

Laphroaig 10 year

Laphroaig 10 Cask Strength Batch 004

Laphroaig 18 year

Laphroaig Quarter Cask

Laphroaig Battlehill 13 year



Current Average score for Whisky: 79.15

Current Standard Deviation: 8.31



This is very, very similar in taste, texture, and nose to Lagavulin 16.

Have you tried the Lagavulin DE? I would think that that would be closest to Laphroaig PX, since they are both PX-finished. Especially since you say the PX is less intense than Laga 16; the DE definitely fits that description.



Lagavulin DE is just drowned by sweetness. It ends up tasting like syrup to me. 

Laphroaig PX is, IMO, a perfect daily drinker. Enough complexity to not feel same-y, but very much a Laphroaig in all its untamed beauty. 



So I've been saving these up for awhile, as who doesn't everyone enjoy a multi-review from a verbose nerd who loves the sound of his own words?

That's what I thought, you LOVE IT.

Anyway, it's been awhile since I've had Laphroaig. And there's a reason for that. It costs a shit ton here in Canada.

Also it's hard to find in bars.

But for real, Laphroaig is a good distillery, and I'm not going to bash it, yet I'll admit it is not my favourite Islay distillery: It falls to a strong 5th place on Islay. And that's not a bad thing. When you get in fights with Olympic level fighters, 5th is still awesome, even if you don't get your name on a plaque and a shiny metal disk.

So yeah, I'm okay with the 10 year (it's pretty decent), the Quarter Cask is really tasty, and the 18 is a very nice dram. Not to mention the Battlehill 13 is another, very tasty dram. I also like that Laphroaig isn't afraid to put out a 48%. So they do some things great.

Anyway, the real question today, for my 200th review, is: Outside of the main offerings, how does Laphroaig stand up? 

Because we're always asking ourselves that about every distillery. Special, sometimes NAS editions are here to stay. They make money. They try new things. They play to our deepest desire to hunt things out, either through multiple trips and sorting, or learning everything we can, or even just the idea of tracing one across state/province/country/territory/intergalactic borders.

And some of them continue, growing past the point of special, or others become special, because they are cancelled. I've included them as well.

Let's see if Laphroaig is jumping on the bandwagon, or if they are really heartfelt in these special editions.

Region: Islay

Laphroaig Triple Wood

So I'm at Feather's. It's a week I'm taking off. Relaxing. Mostly just chilling out, enjoying myself, writing, having a dram a day. It's the midst of Fan Expo. On a Saturday. Which was nuts. I need to pick a third, last, not TOO expensive dram.

And I've been hankering quite a bit of for some unique finishes.

Well, what's better than just one finish? Why Three Finishes! That's where Laphroaig Triple Wood comes in. Also I wanted to save some money during this very consumer-centric nerd-a-thon.

But think about it: Three Finishes! Without saying what they are, or using any of your brain to remember, seriously! Three finishes! Sure, I didn't like Dalmore King Al the Third, but that's Dalmore, so are we surprised? And this isn't 16 finishes like that one (Editor note: that's sarcasm), it's just three!

Only after did I find out the three: First ex-Bourbon, selected from multiple vintages that are well suited (their words, not mine), second is Quarter Cask, and then finally a Sherry European Oak cask (Oloroso Sherry Cask). 

So... that's interesting. I typically like a Double Wood, and I like the Quarter Cask, so what could go wrong?

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 48%

Colour: Brass

Nose: Peat, red apples, lime, campfire, strawberry, caramel

So it starts out very similar to the 10 year. Given a blind tasting, I won't lie: I wouldn't have any idea this isn't the 10 year, barring some fruit notes. And faint fruit notes at that.

Like that one Aunt. You know, she's nice, she's great, knits for needy kids, but also knows the names of every single Boss fight in the first 6 Final Fantasy games, and probably is better at original Starcraft then you? Yet you don't notice until later in life, and she's cool, yet still says "That's nice" when you talk about what's wrong with the Jays starting pitcher.

Taste: Cherry, peat, tobacco, cocoa, anise, plum, sea salt, cinnamon

The sherry influence is here now. It's nice, though not really adding too much. Like my commentary between my notes.

I'm a big boy, I know.

Finish: Peat, currant, sparkling strawberry wine, cedar smoke, caramel

And now the sherry is taking over everything. It's shown up, has put down roots, and has run anything else in this whisky to a reservation, just to show up for some Casino commercials.

There's also a young element at the end that turns me off a little.

Conclusion: So I enjoy this experiment, and think it's a tiny bit better than the 10 year. That said, should I pay a premium for something that is +8% Abv. and has lots of promises? No. It's unbalanced towards the sherry cask, I can't really tell the effect, if any, the Quarter Cask did, and at the end of the day, it's just okay.

This probably should have stayed a travel exclusive, as I assume it had more balance when it was less produced.

77/100

Laphroaig 15 year

Thanks to /u/jimvarney01 for this dram!

Firefly. Family Guy. The Tick: The Animated Series. Veronica Mars. Undergrads. The Pete Holmes Show. The Arsenio Hall Show. Community. Clone High. Invader Zim. Futurama.

At some point, we've watched some show that was cancelled. And it sucked, because we liked that show.

This is an odd case for me. I like the whisky that replaced Laphroaig 15 year. I mean, that's never happened before. I sure as fuck am not watching whatever is replacing Community on NBC (I know it was picked up by Yahoo), mostly because I have no idea what it is. And I haven't really liked a lot of the cartoons since the ones that went away.

Maybe I'm just old? Well, that goes without saying. At least I have Adventure Time.

My own age aside, I don't know how I'm going to react to something that was replaced by something I like. This will be interesting.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 43%

Colour: Caramel sauce

Nose: Creme brulee, peat, rich caramel, medicinal, sea air, plum, violets

Really rich nose on this one. Also, as time goes on, there's a little bit of fruit and floral notes.

Wait, if after 15 years there are already deep, rich fruity/floral notes, why finish the triple wood in Oloroso casks? I guess for different notes, however it makes me wonder.

Taste: Peat, chocolate, raspberry, oak, basil, allspice

Good, again rich notes, with some spice and oak to balance it out. Not as crazy as some older drams, yet still nice, complex enough, and I'm enjoying it quite a bit.

No wonder it got cancelled. Does Fox own Laphroaig?

Finish: Raisins, rum cream sauce, Juicy Fruit gum, peat, bacon, brine

Almost reminds me of a rum finish. Long finish, and the peat is nicely evolved. The Brine is like that one buff guy at a weight watchers meeting, completely out of place.

Wait, does Laphroaig have rum casks? Note to self if I'm ever rich enough to buy two ex-rum casks and two casks of Laphroaig Cask Strength, this could be awesome.

Conclusion: So I've re-reviewed my review of the 18 year old. And I've compared it to what I said, after reviewing this one, with Laphroaig 15 year.

I hate to be the dissenting opinion (Editor's note: No you don't.) However I think that the 18 is an improvement of the 15 year. It ends up developing those notes more, and is more complex.

That said, I still think the 15 is a good dram. They've made a 43% dram, that is 3 years younger, taste almost as good as a +5% Abv. 18 year old dram. It's tasty. It has elements of rum, and fruit, and even Lowland floral notes. I'd say pick up a bottle, because damn, this is tasty, and goes to show you that this distillery is well worth your time. And liver space.

84/100



5th on Islay? That's a pile of crap.

Laphroaig > Kilchoman = Caol Ila > Ardbeg > Lagavulin >> Bunnahabhain >>>> Bruichladdich >? Bowmore



I put up the following in response to /u/Dworgi:

Ardbeg > Lagavulin = Kilchoman > Caol Ila > Laphroaig > Bruichladdich > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

That said, I've since gone back, and after these reviews, averaged out my scores for each.

Order is:



Now, take some of those with a grain of salt. Port Ellen, Lagavulin, and Kilchoman have only had 2 reviews each. 

Though the Kilchoman should be getting a boost soon..



See, I tend to go:

Ardbeg > Lagavulin = Kilchoman > Caol Ila > Laphroaig > Bruichladdich > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

EDIT: Turns out, based on my reviews, it goes:

Port Ellen > Lagavulin > Ardbeg > Bruichladdich > Laphroaig > Kilchoman > Bunnahabhain > Bowmore

Granted, that could change after I do my Kilchoman quad review.



My disagreement stems from a few factors:

Ardbeg is so unreliable. Alligator was amazing, Ardbog/Auriverdes/Galileo were meh. Uigeadail is great, Corryvreckan is meh. Ardbeg 10 is passable. And then there's Blah-sda. And no IBs unless you have an extra grand to spend.

Lagavulin 16 isn't my thing, Distiller's Edition is downright offensively bland. Lagavulin 12 is great some years, but rubbish other years. There is nothing else unless you have $5,000 to spare. 

Laphroaig is almost rock solid quality. Every Cairdeas I've tried has been at the very least good. Triple Wood is disappointing, QC isn't my thing, QA is a bit bland. But PX, 10, 15, 18 and 10 CS are all great. And their special releases (25, 1989) tend to be pretty good bang for the buck. And there's IBs as well, which gives you an almost infinite amount of ways to spend money on Laphroaig!

Caol Ila is extremely reliable. I like the 12 and 18, DE is a bit boring, CS is great but overpriced. The rest is IBs, which I uniformly think are great, but never truly fall in love with the way I love Laphroaig, but that's personal taste.

The rest is whatever, but Bruichladdich at least tastes like vomit and therefore will never rate highly in my book.



Good points all around, and I appreciate the sentiment. My reasons I differ:

I think we differ in the Ardbeg's we like (though agree on some special editions). I like Corvy and 10 a lot more than you did, if I remember right. We agree on Blah-sda, I think I liked Ardbog more than you, and Galileo eventually grew on me. Auriverdes was a let down. On the other hand, I have had the IBs from Ardbeg, and the 1977, and a Supernova, so that ups my view on them. Price doesn't factor into my scores, so Ardbeg does better.

I can see that. Lagavulin in general gets a higher score because I've only reviewed 2 of them, as I've avoided the DE because of rough scores.

See, I'm not a big fan of the 10 year for Laphroaig. Mix that with the low score from Triple wood, and it's getting pulled down. That said, like I said at the start: Being 5th isn't a bad thing when you're competing. If we remove Port Ellen for being defunct and remove Lagavulin for being low in reviews, then it's a Bronze. Solid bronze for me. Also I've only had one IB, and while I like it, I feel like the QC just takes the cake for me.

I'm iffy on Caol Ila. The Moch wasn't my favourite, the CS is amazing, the DE I loved, and the 12 is, as you say, solid. Need to try more of them.

Well now, let's not just say "Whatever". Sure, Bowmore is pretty useless. Bruichladdich has so many different types that it's hard to nail them down. I've had ones I love and ones that are useless. Bunnahabhain is quality, even if I don't really like the 12 year. I can't just shove it aside. Especially given the IBs I've had from them. Kilchoman... seriously? Whatever? I mean, Dude! If I look back at your reviews for Kilchoman, I'll find some heavy hitters. And yeah, it's defunct, but Port Ellen still counts, and in a big way. 



Kilchoman was whatever because I think we agree on them. If the Port Cask lives up to the hype, they'll be inching towards second place. 

Port Ellen I don't count because it's really hard to get a grasp of what they're like because of price. I'll buy one at some point, but more to own one than anything else. 

Laddie, never been impressed, and their marketing puts me off. Probably some good peated stuff around, but I blended my Port Charlotte bottle because I didn't want to drink it. 

Bunna is all vegetal and funky. Not terrible, but that note really drags them down. 

Ardbeg, well, I've tried all but the single casks, including some of the dumpies. Had Still Young and Supernova too. I think I've done all I can with Ardbeg. I'll continue to buy Oog and annuals, but I can't place them too high based on those, especially since it's been a long time since they had a hit. 



Well, I agree with TOM that the 18 is better than the 15. That being said:

No.



You should always remember:

if I'm ever rich enough to buy two ex-rum casks and two casks of Laphroaig Cask Strength, this could be awesome.