Laphroaig Cairdeas 2016 Madeira Cask, 51.6% ABV

I'm a real sucker for these releases. I've bought every one since 2013, and though Laphroaig really set the bar high that year and hasn't since met it, Cairdeas releases have maintained a fairly high level of quality for the money, in my opinion. Reviewing this one while listening to the first White Stripes record on vinyl. Now that's good stuff.

Nose: Wet leaves, brine, TCP, raspberry, musty old paper, grape jelly. An odd combination of decay and bright sweetness.

Taste: On arrival, reminds me of nothing so much as a cigar. Which is not a very reliable note from me because I think I've only had two cigars in my life. But that's just what comes to mind. Cinnamon and smoke, Corryvreckan-ish. Drying. Sugary rum, a bit. Turning quite bitter on development with a candied lemon/orange citrus background. I think adding water does this one a lot of good, bringing out the sweetness more.

Finish: Bitter oak and a little bit of a vegetal aftertaste. 

I'm conflicted about this one. There are aspects of it I like quite a lot, but there's this bitter aspect that I don't love. Not a rounded, malty, coffee/cacao-like bitter but a sharper, rawer woody kind. It's not the most dominant part of the flavor profile but it's there. So once again Cairdeas falls short of greatness for me, but definitely still achieves goodness, on the order of a high B. I'm scoring it 88/100, and funny enough as I look at my archive that's the rating I gave the last two releases as well. I guess that speaks to the consistently good Laphroaig character at the base of all their experiments, and I think this has a lot in common with the 2014 release in particular. 



what's your dog's name?

edit: derp.  you're not /u/belbivfreeordie 



I really enjoyed it, it was the only festival bottle I bought (I liked the Lagavoulin but felt it was too pricey). Normally I don't really enjoy the "finished" whiskies (not even to talk about NAS) but I thought that this was nicely done. 

The cinnamon and candied fruit notes you mention are there for me too but I don't get a bitter finish, I thought it rather sharp and short but I tend to expect that from NAS whisky so I may be getting what I expect there.



Whisky Network Review #102

I know everyone is waiting to try the new edition ? so I figured I should finally post my review of the Laphroaig Cairdeas 2016 release.   The 2016 edition is a NAS Laphroaig originally matured in ex-bourbon barrels with a second maturation in Madeira-seasoned traditional hogsheads.

Bottled at 51.6% ABV, this limited edition Laphroaig was quite reasonably priced at $100 CAD at the LCBO late last year (I got mine early, before they all disappeared).

Colour: Definitely a wine-cask finish, with a lot red hues (though otherwise light).

Nose:  Sweet, with some of the classic Laphroaig peat reek buried below the fruit (pear, apricot and a bit of cherry and raspberry). A bit citrusy too. Vanilla. Not as medicinal as I would have expected for a Laphroaig (seems to be overwhelmed by the fruit). A touch floral (herbal?). With water, caramel joins the vanilla.

Palate: Not as fruity, except in a general light fruit and citrus sense (fruit seems mainly on the nose). Honey.  Butterscotch. Spicy notes, with black pepper. Briny, like salted cod. A touch of wet cardboard. Slightly creamy texture (nice mouthfeel, actually). With water, the oakiness picks up, as well as the sweetness. Caramel and brown sugar are added to the mix as well. Easy to drink neat, but I recommend you try a little splash.  

Finish: Long. Sweet peat again, like the nose. Smoke lingers, as well as some ash. The classic Laphroaig medicinal notes finally poke through, along with a slight sourness. But the sweetness lasts the longest (surprisingly).

I must admit, this is a bit of strange one. Not sure how much demand there is for such a sweetened Laphroaig. Honestly, I wouldn?t have pegged this as a Laphroaig at all, until that finish settled in. Those looking for a medicinal peat bomb will likely be disappointed (although I'm thinking it might appeal more to a Lagavulin drinker). I'm not a big peat guy, but I kind of like this edition.

Score: 88

Personal lifetime scoring stats:  Mean score:  85.0, Standard Deviation: 5.2, Min score: 58, Max score: 96, Number scored: 227

WhiskyAnalysis Meta-Critic Database for Laphroaig Cairdeas 2016 Madeira: 8.83 ? 0.42 on 11 reviews ($$$$)



Thanks for the ABV - you're right, I should have looked at the bottle (was going by the LCBO website).

Thanks for the comment on Lagavulin. I'm not typically a Laphroaig fan, but I liked this expression (and I like Lagavulin), so it seemed to me there was an association of some sort.

As for the $100 CAD, that is actually a screaming hot deal by Ontario standards.  To put it in perspective: Balvenie 12yo Doublewood is $95 CAD here.



Haha, well, not coincidentally we have tight limits on how much we can bring back duty-free (and how long we have to be out of the country first). And outside narrow those limits, we pay an additional ~80% markup on the US list price for declared duty for whisky.

If you are a little over, they'll typically wave you through. But go through without declaring, and it's all poured down the drain if they check. 



Yes, I too declare everything - I travel so much, the last thing I want is any potential hassle.  The heavy duties relate to the fact that we have (in most Provinces) highly-profitable state-controlled liquor distribution, and they do not want you to import on your own.  Technically, you could try to get the state-run system to order for you - but they will only do large lots, and charge the same duties as the border anyway.

I've been lucky to travel a lot for work in my life, and I have to say that on the whole, I find Canada to be a good place to live. :)



I've got a pair of wine finished peated scotches up for review tonight.  

Bruichladdich Octomore 02.2 Orpheus 122 proof

Nose: in a word: confusing.  As others have observed, it doesn't really smell like a malt whisky.  The peat and the wine overlay in a way that simultaneously hides and alters both (I dare say the wine must have been quite intense to keep pace with Octomore levels of peat). The red wine grapes are pretty heavy and have a bit of sweetness but morph medicinal under the influence of the peat. The peat seems a little bit sweet and slightly earthy, but morphs dry/bitter and slightly chemically when combined with the wine. Lots of alcohol burn to work around too.  

Taste: here some malt leads briefly before stepping aside to allow the peat to smolder through. The wine comes through here as almost a highland funk: slightly rotten grapes with plastic. A bit of a burn but most of that is in the finish. A touch of black pepper, and sweet smoked ham.

Finish: here the slightly rotten grapes are fully featured, almost reminiscent of a fortified wine. They also are on fire from a bit of smoke and a hearty alcohol burn. The initial aftertaste is smoldering peat, but the late aftertaste tends more towards dry red wine tannins and wet wood.

I've heard a story supposedly about Martin Luther (the founder of the Lutheran church, not the American civil rights icon) getting down on all fours to lick communion wine from the floor of the church when it spilled because he genuinely believed it was the blood of Christ.  I've got that story stuck in my head while drinking this scotch: in my head, the altar boy spills the wine while fleeing a forest fire, and the poor aged pastor is left to lick the wooden floor.  

It honestly made a lot more sense in my mind than it does written out.

Score: 81/100

Laphroaig Cairdeas Madeira (2016) 103.2 proof

Initial Impressions: next to Orpheus, this thing tastes like peppermint candy - the sugary sweet kind, not the breath mint kind

Price: $75

Nose: pretty much as advertised - Laphroaig iodine peat wrapped in a dessert wine shell.  Candy, a chemical edge, a bit of fairly fresh wood. Faced with a fairly weak nose, I worry I should be finding more.

Taste: I simply cannot escape three feeling that this is two distinct layers rather than one integrated product. There's a gentler than being kicked in the face by a horse version of the standard Laphroaig peated profile, and then there's the candy-like sweetness of the wine. They meet, but never really mingle - kind of like the extended relatives of bride and groom at a wedding. It goes like this: sip, peat, sweet red wine, swallow, repeat.

Finish: peat smoke rises from the belly after a medium alcohol burn (the burn is also mildly acidic) and brings with it a cornucopia of spicy red fruits. Here, in the lingering aftertaste, the two sides finally are integrated. And linger it does: on and on and on and on.... Eventually it sweetens, then fades.

I like it well enough, but I'm not in love. Some nights I think the Madeira finish should be toned down a bit. Some nights the peat stands out and feels too bitter and peppery. And I can't even articulate what I would change. I do know I think it should be more integrated, but I have no idea how they'd go about that. Maybe more time in second fill casks as opposed to (what I assume) were first fill. I dunno. Tasty, but not delicious, it gets a B- 

Score: 81/100

Not sure what to say.  Wine finished peat is fine, but it's not my thing I guess.



Great reviews and I love the Orpheus commentary! If an Octomore spills in a burning forest, does it still make everything smell like smoke? 

Anyway, I got the same impression from the Madeira Cairdeas - good flavors, but not completely integrated. I enjoyed it a bit more than you (upper limit of a B), but it didn't quite hit the spot of the Port Wood.

PS: title puns for the win



but it's not my thing I guess     

Due to our differences when it comes to Sherried whiskies, I'd been surprised if you came to a differente result :P



The 2016 release of Cairdeas from Laphroaig distillery, matured in ex-bourbon barrels then given a second maturation in Madeira hogsheads. Released during the Feis Ile 2016, bottled at 51.6% vol.

Nose: Subdued nose.  Ethanol, peat, a bit of smoke, burnt onion

Palate: Starts small and tame and gets bigger and bigger and bigger.  Very unique.  Creamy and round.  Peat smoke.  Orange zest and lemon.  Burnt rubber.  Carmelized onions.

Finish: Oak and smokey sweetness. The peat wins in the end.  Still a trace of onions too somehow.

Score: 87/100

This is very interesting and different.  I like it quite a bit, but not going to run out and stock up on it either.  I'll likely buy a bottle if I see it for a decent price.



I like it quite a bit, but not going to run out and stock up on it either.

Yeah, that sums up the last couple of Cairdeas releases for me. But they're usually priced well for what you get, so I keep buying!



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2016

(51.6%, matured in ex-bourbon barrels + finished in ex-madeira hogsheads, 2016 limited release, ~$100 CAD)

?

Nose: Orange peel, dried apricot, brine, seaweed, raspberry, white chocolate, pickled ginger, wood smoke

Taste: Apricot, almond paste, orange, smoked oysters, brine, pepper, toasted marshmallows

Finish: Grapefruit, honey, seaweed, ash, oak, black pepper

? 

The nose is initially fruity and sweet? very surprising for a Laphroaig. Mineral, seaside notes are next to reveal themselves. The peat emerges with time, softly medicinal but present underneath all the sweetness. Yet again more of the sweeter notes appear over time, while all the while the smoke builds up on the back end. Smoky, sweet (but never cloyingly so) and slightly herbal in the mouth. The flavors are still fairly gentle, with a creamy texture. Slowly but surely the Laphroaig spirit finally starts winning out, leading into a peppery, bitter and ashy turn for the finish.  

Though you get flashes of Laphroaig in there, this is a bit of an oddity (not in a bad way, just different). Never thought something could so overwhelm the core Laphroaig peated spirit before? almost comes across more as a Laphroaig finished Madeira initially and can sometimes seem at odds with itself. In any case, this is an interesting one, fairly unique and well worth a try.

?

86/100



Thanks for the review.

Not usually a big fan of the 'froaig myself, as I'm not into the heavy medicinal/iodine notes so much.  This one sounds like it could be right up my alley.  And since the LCBO is letting you order a single bottle online (there's a novelty!), I figured I'd make this my first Cairdeas.

From the other reviews I've read, it seems like this is the closest thing to the 2013 port wood (which was similarly lower ranked overall, but with some supporters).  



I'd say other than possibly some of the single cask IB's, this probably has the highest chance for you as well. If you like, before you open the bottle I can hook you up with a sample so you can make up your mind. 

Worst comes to worst you can always return it. They seem to be going fast... from 275 to 45 in 2 days.



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2016 Review 

Cask: First in ex-bourbon barrels, finished in Madeira hogshead casks. .

ABV: 51.6%  

Thanks /u/mikeczyz  

Nose: Not the most aggressive or pronounced nose for a Laphroaig at cask strength 51+%. Smokey, peat, orange peel, noticeably more sweetness than the standard Laphroaig profile. 

Palate: Spice, peat, herbal notes for a base. Built upon by orange peel and sweetness from pears.  . Oak certainly showing through. Wonderful mix of smoky, sweet and herbal. Less extreme barrel influence compared to the 2013 Portwood Cairdeas. A balance blend of flavors. Sweetness works well with the Laphroaig profile. 

Finish: Creamy, peat, oak. Some bitter herbal notes on the tail end after a wave of sweetness. Not the longest finish, but I have been heavily into 17-25 year cask strength Laphroaig bottling recently, so my expectations may be biased. 

Score: 88 

Overrall: Another strong release from Laprhoaig  for  the Cairdeas lineup. The 2015 release was not that interesting, but still nice. Glad they have returned to wine finished releases for this. Smoky, earthy and sweet, count me a fan.  . 



You may be right, since the bottle of 2013 and 2015 are both in the 51% range as well... 

It dawns on me that the '13 is 51.3%, the '15 is 51.5% and the '16 is 51.6%... I am noticing a pattern. My apologizes. 

On a side note, it appears that the 2016 Cairdeas is coming to the LCBO at $102, a whole $3 more than last year. I can live with that. 



Well if it's cask strength they should state it on the bottle. I find the releases way too consistent considering they use different types of casks for different amounts of time and also different warehouses (see 2015). Also the 10 CS releases vary between 55%-60%.

This is the same for Ardbeg Uigeadail. They've been bottling at 54.2% ABV for years and don't state anywhere if it's cask strength or not. So as far as I'm concerned neither are CS bottlings.



None of the other releases have been airport/travel exclusives. 

Wine-searcher has it showing up in a number of stores in the US - http://www.wine-searcher.com/find/laphroaig+cairdeas



you work quickly.

i really, really like the 2015 and that puts me in the minority, i think. 



well, you already know my stance on wine finishes. :)

you've motivated me to go write a mezcal review!



/r/Mezcal exists, but nobody is there. 

Maybe post to both?



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2016 Madeira ? 51.6%

?

It?s good, for a Laphroaig. Not as good as the Port Cairdeas, but definitely better than the 10/10CS and other versions around that price range. I?d probably enjoy this more than the 18yr actually, but it falls short of the older Cairdeas and Longrow RED Port, just for comparison.



I wish I had been drinking back in 2013, when the Port Cairdeas came out. Unfortunately I wasn't, for various reasons. I got the 2014, 2015, and 2016 cairdeas expressions, and I think they are all great drinks. I got a deal on the 2016, so bought a case. That's just in the event that I can't get any of the 2017 until it gets released in the US.

Nice review. I agree with you that it's not A=great, but I'd give it a B+ 



These are part of my post about my trip to Laphroaig, but I didn't have space for all the text, so here are the 2 whiskies I took notes for:

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2016 Madeira

Aged 3 years *. 51.6%ABV. Matured in ex-bourbon casks and finished in Madeira hogsheads. No colourant added, non-chill filtered and bottled at cask strength.
*for lack of age statement although we were told it?s around 10-11 years old

Nose: Slight farmy note, refined, not the big, bold notes usually found in a Laphroaig. Bit of a sweet oily nose, like sage oil. Spicy. Cinnamon. Pepper. Salt. Ozone.

Palate: More Laphroaig here mineral peat and medicinal notes. Juicy, sweet red fruits. Cinnamon. Cough syrup.

Finish: Long. Farmy. Anise. Spice. Cherry cough syrup.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 3/5

This wasn?t a bad whisky at all, but it was very light and full of sweet herbal notes. For me that just didn?t sit right with the Laphroaig profile, so not a bad whisky, just not to my tastes, so I passed up on buying a bottle at the distillery.

Laphroaig Lore

Aged 3 years * . 48%ABV. Non-chill filetered.

*for lack of age statement

Nose: Earthy Peat, typical Laphroaig, but mixed with quite a strong fruity note. Slightly floral. Soot. Apple cider. Yellow cherries.

Palate: Very ashy. Wet earth. Juicy fruits. Fried mushrooms. Crisp lager.

Finish: Long. Ash. Oil smoke. Wet wood. Seaweed.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 2/5

This was a really nice dram and it does emphasise the whole Laphroaig profile quite well, very medicinal and peaty but with some sweeter notes as well. The higher ABV and no chill filtration means it is very rich as the box says. But it?s just not as good as a whisky almost twice the price of the 10-year-old cask strength should be.

Reviewed in my blog:
https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2016/07/17/my-islay-trip-part-3-laphroaig/



This is a Laphroaig that was finished in Madeira casks for 2 years after spending 8 years in ex bourbon casks. 51.6% abv. Thanks to /u/mikeczyz for the sample.

Nose - White chocolate, golden raisins, dried apricot, seaweed, white and black pepper, smoke, powdered ginger. A bit fruitier than your standard Laphroaig, which is no surprise given the finish.

Palate - Starts sweet, with the apricot, golden raisins and some vanilla. The vanilla theme continues as it develops, with the pepper, seaweed, smoke, and powdered ginger notes appearing as it develops. Full bodied and full flavored. 

Finish - Golden raisins, apricots, black and white pepper, powdered ginger, smoke, seaweed. Gets progressively more peppery and smoky. Smokiness gets a bit acrid here.

Not my favorite Laphroaig...this reminds me a lot of the An Cuan Mor, though this has the intensity dialed up a few notches. This apricot/golden raisin thing is a bit heavy handed, and just doesn?t mesh with Laphroaig?s character for me the way some good old fashioned bourbon maturation does. I do like the salinity and BIG peppery notes at work here, but I don?t think this one is for me compared to their other offerings. If you liked the An Cuan Mor, though, give this a go.

79/100



The trip to Islay was probably the highlight of my 2+ weeks in Europe. Being able to see the distilleries I've been reading about and tasting drams from for years was amazing. This post covers our first day of distillery visits, walking down the road from Port Ellen to Laphroaig, Lagavulin and Ardbeg. 

At Laphroaig, we did a tour, and I've included some pictures from that. It concluded with a dram of the 2016 Cairdeas in the Lounge. We also claimed our rent for our friends of Laphroaig plots and placed Canadian flags on our square feet of land. The Cairdeas is aged in ex bourbon and finished in Madeira. 

Laphroaig Cairdeas 2016 Madeira - 51.6% ABV

Appearance: Ncf, uncoloured. Light yellow with pink hues.

Nose: Tons of berry, light sweet peat, bit of smoke, apples, pears, honey

Palate: Way more peat than the nose, fruity... berries apples pears, apricots. Slight phenolic smokiness. 

Finish: Long smoky

Score: 90/100

Overall: very nice combo of Laphroaig iodine peatiness and fruity notes. 

Next we visited Lagavulin where they were short staffed and wouldn't let us go to where the distillery name is on the wall near the sea? you'll notice I have a picture of it which happened because after visiting Ardbeg, I was a little tipsy and decided to go through a gate and run through the distillery to find it. I have a selfie with it as well (because my wife wouldn't join me). good times. This is the 8yr anniversary bottling.

Lagavulin 8 - 48% ABV

Appearance: Pale yellow straw. Def uncoloured. 

Nose: Peat, apple, medicinal peat, slight smoke. 

Palate: Ashy smoke, campfire, boggy peat, oily mouthfeel, some fruity notes. Agave, apple blossom.  Tastes young but quite nice still. 

Finish: Medium length, smoky, ashy. 

Score: 85/100

Overall: good potential but tastes quite young and more ashy than I tend to like.

Lastly, we went to Ardbeg where I figured they'd also be sharing their Feis Isle releases and wasn't anticipating much, given the calibre of releases recently. We started with Kildalton, which is named after the Celtic cross about 7 miles down the road. It's the 2014 Feis Isle release aged in ex-bourbon.

Ardbeg Kildalton - 46% ABV

Appearance: Light yellow, uncoloured. Thick legs

Nose: Malty, light peat smoke, oaky vanilla, 

Palate: Phenols, iodine, oaky and tannic , ashy smoke. Light peat. Young. With water it's a bit more floral and vegetal. 

Finish: Medium and smoky

Score: 81/100

Overall: quite young and somewhat one-note.

Next up, we tried the Dark Cove, which refers to something I'm not aware of. After Kildalton, I wasn't expecting great things. The Dark Cove is ex-bourbon and finished in ex-sherry.

Ardbeg Dark Cove - 46.5% ABV

Appearance: Darker than Kildalton with obvious sherry cask influence. Gold. 

Nose: Much different, tons of fruit and sweet sugars. Raspberries and strawberries. Caramel oak. 

Palate: Fruity and smoky. Apples, strawberries, raspberries. Vegetal peat and smoke. More berries, more smoke and floral grassy malt. Great balance of sweet elements and peatiness. Tastes like a younger Uig. 

Finish: long and fruity

Score: 91/100

Overall: Loved it. they stepped up their limited release game in 2016. I'd be tempted to buy it if it weren't like $200 in Canada.

started and ended the day on great drams. Laphroaig was particularly fun finding our plots, planting our flags and getting our mini glencairns and minis of Laphroaig 10. Beautiful walk along the three distillery path with sheep everywhere and rolling hills around you. Gorgeous area. 

Next stop will be Bruichladdich!