Laphroaig Cairdeas 2015, 200th Anniversary Edition, 51.5% ABV

Nose: Lemony peat, cigar smoke, fresh baked goods, caviar, sawdust

Taste: Here too, the smoke has more of a tobacco-like character than previous Laphroaig expressions I've tasted. Faint lemon peel, wood, rubber?

Finish: Ash, smoke. Maybe a little citrus.

It's Laphroaig, and it's good, and if you like Laphroaig you'll like this, but it is not as special as I was hoping for for the 200th anniversary. If you don't manage to get your hands on a bottle you should not be too brokenhearted. 88/100



Yep, the hook is all kin-house malted barley + maturation in their #1 warehouse on the shore. And all bourbon-barrel maturation as noted.

In my mind, the "idea' is pure and great, and the results are totally solid.



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2015

Price: approx. $80
ABV: 51.5%
Details:

Nose: Peat, but not a Laphroaig 10 peat. This peat is a little more subdued and more vegetal. Minerals, lemon, brine, sea salt, tar, some fruitiness that I can?t discern.
Taste: Green apple, salted spinach, olives, char-grilled oysters, lime, ash, mint. Creamy body.
Finish: Earthy, smoked beef, peppery, almond, honey. Damn.

Conclusion: Maybe Laphroaig Lore will taste like this? Ha. Highly unlikely, but we can dream. This differentiates itself quite well from Laphroaig 10 (I haven?t had QC or CS yet, so I can?t compare those). There is more fruitiness, the ?medical/bandaid? note from the 10 is not as assertive, and there is more complexity with some notes not found in the standard 10. The high proof is not apparent in any negative way, only adding more intensity to the great flavors. 

While it is a little steep at $80, it?s worth it if you are a Laphroaig fan looking for a new experience.
Overall: 89 

Note: Scores are based on the quality of the whiskey. Price/value is not included in the score.



Compared to the QC, 2015 Cairdeas peat is "deeper". A bit more taste/honey. I like to Cairdeas better (ignoring price).

Compared to the 18, 2015 Cairdeas is def more peatier and flavor is more assertive but not as complex. I like the 18 better which I got on clearance so price is about the same.

2015 Cairdeas is definitely "younger" tasting probably due to NAS. I like it though, but agree it is a bit overpriced.



Islay, 51.5% 

Thanks to u/buckydean for the sample.

Rested for about ten minutes in a glencairn, neat at first and then with a splash of water. 

Bonus wife note: ?Smells like antiseptic?

Bonus wife note: ?Ew. All I get is peat. Too spicy.?

Conclusion: The only other Laphroaig I?ve had was the 10 and it?s been at least a couple of years. As best as I can recollect, this is much better. It?s not a punch in the throat kind of intense peat, but I prefer this more subdued style. I might even prefer a touch more smoke. If I had to criticize, it?s maybe too laid back. Virtually no heat on the palate at full strength but I still thought the flavors came out better with just a touch of water. I dig this kind of sweet and smoky combination.I could drink this every day. My wife obviously had a very different opinion. 

Buy a bottle? I think I?ve seen it around for around $80. Would definitely consider it. 

88/100



That seems crazy to me. 

But then again, I'm not really complaining, I guess



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2015 200th Anniversary ? 51.5%, $70 

Nose: sweet coastal brine, smoked peat and earth, light iodine. 

Taste: Strong smoke and ash fire, sweet seaweed, brine is heavy. Full mouthfeel. 

Finish: Turns to charcoal and stays for a while. Sweet sea water holds but is lost after a moment. Long length.  

Notes: This is undoubtedly a Laphroaig yet still different from their standard expressions. This harkens back to the Cardias style of the Illeach and Origin. I really enjoyed this one overall it?s hard to find fault with it.  

88/100



I liked this better than the new 15. <putting on flame suit for the 15 fans/diehards>

The 15 was almost too mild for me, not as meek as the Select, but reminded me of a lightly peated JW Green.

I had the 15 side by side with the 2015 Cairdeas



I'm a fan of this Cairdeas. It is not as unique as the Portwood, but still very enjoyable. 

The sweetness sets this apart for me, and makes it a unique treat compared to the normal Laphroaig offerings. 



Tonight, I am sampling my second sample of Laphroaig 10 CS beside a tablespoon of this years Cairdeas.  My goal is to try to figure out why this year's Cairdeas isn't quite right for me.

Color: As you can see, the 10 CS is much darker.  I believe this indicates more interaction with the wood, though I am not sure.  It seems quite plausible that this is all the difference between the two, as they are identical through the nose and taste.  Follow along, if you care..

Nose: classic Laphroaig peat smoke, leaning towards a coal fire. Earth, brine, and a hint of the malt sweetness I know I'll find in the taste. At this point I know the Laphroaig nose so well it's really hard to find additional notes outside of "Laphroaig!"

Taste: pepper spice, peat and earth. Intensity dialed all the way up to 11, brash, it is what it is! Nowhere near the sweetness of the 18, but still yielding some sugar if sipped slowly and carefully.

Finish: This is where the two pours differ violently.  During the taste, I noted a slightly off taste for a brief second, but couldn't think of a name for it so I just skipped it.  But here.... the finish starts off as expected, with some burning tar and the expectation is that you'll be experiencing the wonders of a Laphroaig smokey finish.  Then, out of left field that off flavor comes in - it's something like a fruit sweetness, slightly rotten, in a cigarette smoke filled room.  And then the finish stops.  Just like that.

Score: 86/100

Average whisky, give it a B, it's fine for drinking.  My disappointment is bitter tasting.  Buy another Laphroaig instead. There's only 72,000 varieties to choose from.



I haven't gotten this years yet, but was not blown away by the 2012 or the 2014. I will still probably get some 2015, as I have a blender bottle that is 1:1:1 cairdeas to throw it in the mix.

Can you compare this years cairdeas to a different expression? standard 10 maybe? 15? Select? Does it match anything at all?



Was is the 2013 Cairdeas that was pink? 

I got a bottle of it in NYC one time and haven't been able to find it locally (Atlanta area). I would love to find another bottle of it to stash. It was a favorite for both my boyfriend and myself. 



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2015

(51.5%, matured in ex-bourbon barrels from 100% Laphroaig floor malted barley)

?

With the 100% floor malted barley, distillation in their smaller stills and full maturation in their No. 1 warehouse (right by the sea), the 200th Anniversary edition of Cairdeas for 2015 was made to recreate how Laphroaig would have been produced at the distillery 200 years ago. Unofficially ~11(ish) years old if the Internet is to be believed, though if you?re going to be that forthcoming in public anyways, then why not just label it on the bottle? 

Thanks to u/Devoz for this sample! 

?

Nose: Earth, brine, lemon, vanilla, minerals, apple sauce, eucalyptus, some iodine

Taste: Seaweed, salted caramel, roasted chestnuts, ash, green apples, pepper, anise, rubber bands

Finish: Ash, sea salt, lemon, burnt rubber, cigar smoke

? 

The nose starts off with loads of coastal and mineral notes and a hint of fruits. On the palate this is rich and creamy, again leading with big maritime influence (stopping just shy of being able to smell the seagulls ? I hate seagulls) with some sweeter notes shining through every now and then. The dram is quite consistently medicinal and vegetal throughout in nature throughout. Big ashy finish, with some lemon and heat. Aftertaste feels like it leaves tire treads on the tongue. 

This strikes me as a very ?honest? dram? unpolished and raw, without any fancy hooks or tricks. Pretty much the polar opposite of the 2016 version in every way. It presents itself as very unapologetically Laphroaig, a Laphroaig-y Laphroaig? a classic Laphroaig all the way if you will. Certainly very brash and sharp in nature? could easily be described as a little rough around the edges. Takes the core Laphroaig character and turns it up a notch. I?ve gone back and forth between the 2015 and 2016, but it?s very close for my preferences? in the end, I think I might have to give the slightest of edges to the 2015.

?

87/100



100% agree with you that this really is in the style of a classic Laphroaig. Really enjoyable, what you expect from a higher proof offering from them. Great value at the LCBO when it was released, happy I have two more left.  

Hope you enjoy the last of the Cairdeas samples I sent, you saved my favorite for last. 



I really liked it...but then again their basic lineup has my favorite malts (especially the 10 CS).

It beats he 2016 for me by a couple of points, but they're so different that I'm really glad I have backup bottles for both. It's delicious stuff!



Welcome :)

There's a very active community of whisky sample swappers here. If you're interested, the basic steps are:

Procure 2 oz sample bottles (typical swaps are 2 oz)

Post an inventory on r/whiskyinventory and check out other inventories

Post results of swaps (or see what others have swapped) on r/ScotchSwap

Hope that helps... and no, not everything comes from u/Devoz, we just happen to swap a lot :)



Mystery Sample Provided by /u/LetThereBeR0ck  labeled as "3". The previous sample which was Glenmorangie Finealta was an absolute pleasure drinking and want to take this chance to thank him one more time for sending such a quality drink that I would not have had the chance otherwise to try!         

?
Color : Looks like a bourbon cask or hogshead, I usually enjoys these unpeated!             

Nose : Peat, peat, peat, leather, lemon & brine.                   

Taste : Burnt rubber, peat, cereal, malt, rather sweet and salty, some orange & lemon juice.       

Finish : As clean and crisp as a peated bourbon cask can get.        

?
Peat without sherry is blasphemy. Don't you all agree? I think this is a great bourbon cask Islay but I enjoy my Islays to be heavily sherried. Ardbeg 10?        3/5



Ardbeg 10    

Sounds like it, given the nature of the other mystery ardbeg corry comes to mind as well...



You're absolutely correct about a bourbon cask peat monster! 

Reveal: Laphroaig Cairdeas 2015, 200th Anniversary Edition



Today has been bloody cold and I went by the post office after work and was delighted to find out that the samples just came in from a swap I did with /u/TOModera. As if a sign from the heavens some winter pyjamas I ordered were also waiting for me. 

So I went home, posted in /r/ScotchSwap, put on my new PJ's and poured myself a dram I've been very excited to try. This year's annual Cairdeas release didn't come with any fancy finishes, but was all made at Laphroaig from floor maltings to bottling and apparently in the style of days gone by.

Aged 3 years *, 51.5%ABV, NCA, NCF, CS

*For lack of age statement although Laphroaig usually do hint at the age of their Cairdeas releases in their marketing materials and this was described as being "almost 12 years old"

Nose: So much Laphroaig. Mineral peat. Earth. Sea salt. Seaweed washed up on the beach. Iodine. Rubber. Cooked shellfish. Dry straw. Herbal honey. Apple sauce. Pomelo.  Arnica cream. 

Palate: Very earthy peat. Wet ash. Laundry soap bars. Quite medicinal. Eucalyptus oil. Orange peel. Perfect ABV, not too aggressive, not to mild. A burst of sticky rubber on the swallow. 

Finish: Long. Warm. Sweet peat and honey. Some wood tannins. Freshly laid asphalt. Rubber. A few barbecue scrapings. Slight hint of toffee.

Wow! This was such a Laphroaigy Laphroaig, and so well put together. I'm in love. 



Oh thank fuck they came in! I was worried.

This one is quite tasty. I'm quite glad I bought a bottle of it, especially after missing buying a bottle of origins.



Previous releases are young stock from quarter casks finished for an additional period in a particular type of wine cask, or as in the case of Origins half quarter cask and half older stock.  This stock is supposedly aged entirely in bourbon barrels for 11 years in their dunnage warehouses.    It is of course possible their is some younger stock in here, but from what I've read that isn't the case with this release.

Even it there was young whisky in here, it doesn't detract from this bottle because it's well done.  At the end of the day that's the most important thing.



*NAS

It isn't misleading to call out an NAS scotch for being minimally 3 years old.  Have no age statement is misleading by not guaranteeing the consumer any age younger than 3 years old.  If it were up to me all NAS bottles would have "Three Years Old" on the side.



Laphroaig Cairdeas 2015

Cairdeas is Laphroaig?s annual special release. The ?15  is a cask strength version that was matured primarily in bourbon casks. Thanks to /u/stinkysauce for the sample. 

No age statement. 51.5% abv.

Nose - Sweet medicinal smokiness - a very ?Laphroaig-y? Laphroaig. Big vanilla, brown sugar, butterscotch, oceany/seaweed, smoke, black and white pepper notes. Getting some lemon in there too. I like it.

Palate - Hickory smoked pork, vanilla, butterscotch, brown sugar, with lots of lemon, pepper, and a big oceany/seaweed note showing up as it progresses...starts smoky/sweet, and picks up a peppery/citrusy bite. Medium-plus body. Doesn?t seem to be terribly refined, this one is big and brash - i.e., no wonder there?s no age statement. It?s big and brash in a good way, though, if you?re a Laphroaig fan.

Finish - Loads of black and white pepper, bbq pork again, butterscotch, brown sugar, vanilla, lemon. Smokiness gets progressively ashy here, with the smoke/citrus/pepper lingering after the sweetness fades.

I really like this one. Very much an uncompromising Laphroaig - epitomizes what drew me to Laphroaig (and Scotch) in the first place. Lacking a bit of depth (which is what?s keeping it from an even higher score), which I?m guessing is because it?s fairly young, but very enjoyable overall.

91/100

Laphroaig 15 Yr Signatory

This is a bottling from refill Sherry Butt 700358. 732 bottles came from that cask (perhaps they re-racked it? Seems like an awful lot given the Angels are a thirsty bunch?).

46% abv. Non chill filtered, natural color.

Nose - Ashy smoke, tar, honeydew melon, black/white pepper, vanilla frosting, sliced almonds, a hint of orange zest. Sherry notes are somewhat faint...maybe it was just a drier type of sherry. A fair amount of sweetness is here, though.

Palate - Surprisingly gentle at first. Honeydew melon and vanilla on entry, picking up some almond notes, ashy smoke, lemon and pepperyness as it develops. Medium body, with a slightly thick texture.

Finish - Black and white pepper, smoke, lemon, that honeydew note again, hints of almond and vanilla. Pepper, smoke, and lemon notes linger the longest.

Nice stuff - kind of a more gentle, refined Laphroaig, though theres still plenty of the trademark smokiness. Nothing here really jumps out to me, though - I think the cask used for this was past the point where it had much to impart to the spirit, though, unfortunately, beyond toning down some of the rougher edges. At least Laphroaig has a strong enough base spirit that it?s still pleasant enough to sip.

86/100

Laphroaig 15

This is what I guess will be replacing the 18 Yr, as Laphroaig?s older stocks ran out, or maybe Suntory didn?t want to hold the inventory for the extra 3 years before getting their cash, who knows. Thanks to /u/Xenonbloom for the sample.

43% abv. 15 years old.

Nose - This strikes me as a refined, gentlemanly Laphroaig, but one with Laphroaig?s signature qualities. The medicinal briny seaweedy smokiness is here, black and white pepper, vanilla, bbq sauce, and a bit of an apricot-like fruitiness.

Palate - Salty, smoky, and sweet. The briny and smoky notes hit first, backed up by some brown sugar, pepper, apricot, and vanilla. Nicely balanced and complex. The smoke has been dialed back a bit from some of the bolder Laphroaig?s I?ve had, though - what I noted on the nose regarding this being a more gentlemanly Laphroaig holds here too.

Finish - Peppery, briny, and smoky, with a nice underlying fruity sweetness. Decent duration, but again, kind of gentle for a Laphroaig.

Well, this is a well put together whisky, I think. That said, some of us like our Laphroaig?s best when they?re a big peaty punch to your palate, and this isn?t one of those. If you want a more easygoing Laphroaig, this will do nicely, though, as it is tasty and balanced. 

89/100



How does the Laph Cairdeas compare to the Laph Quarter Cask ?

Thank you



Hello Scotchit! Been a bit of a lurker here so I thought that for my first review I'd post up something current. So here it is: the 200th anniversary edition of Laphroaig's Cairdeas. These were allocated by ballot because of demand, so I was lucky enough to be given the chance to buy a bottle.

As I understand it, for this edition Laphroaig's John Campbell used the malted barley from their own floor Maltings (which is peated a slightly different way using something called 'cold smoke process'). The wash from this was then distilled using only the smallest stills at Laphroaig. The distillate (20,000L) was then filled into 1st fill Bourbon barrels in August 2003 and left to mature in Laphroaig's no.1 warehouse, right down by the sea. Source

All useful information. Anyway, onwards with the review!

Laphroaig Cairdeas 200th Anniversary Edition 51.5%

This is a great whisky. I love how different but recognisable it is. At first I thought this should get the same mark as the 18 year old Laphroaig (82 but not reviewed on here yet), but now having them side by side the Cairdeas almost makes the 18 year old seem a bit boring and ordinary, which is quite a feat! 84/100

FYI That's a great score from me, my average score is probably around 73.