Last year Macallan released the first in a new limited edition series ? Edition No. 1 (a rather uninspired name, but it gets the job done I suppose). Recently they came out with the second in the series, Edition No. 2. Unlike a lot of Macallan limited edition releases, this series is actually relatively affordable (although certainly not bargain priced). The Edition No. 2 is a collaboration between Macallan and some folks that run a restaurant called El Celler de Can Roca, which is apparently one of the best restaurants in the world. This malt was aged in a combination of American and European oak, mostly from ex-sherry casks, and bottled at 48.2% ABV, which is a nice strength for Macallan, especially compared to the 43% of their standard range. 

Macallan Edition No. 2

ABV: 48.2%
Price: $99

Nose: Mixed berries. Sherry oak. Chocolate mousse. Whipped cream. Walnuts. Ginger. A drop of water brings out even more of the light chocolate and cream. 

Palate: Chocolate. Dark fruits. Nuts and honey. Ginger. A touch of baking spices. 
Mouthfeel is fairly thick and creamy. 

Finish: Amaretto. A little spicy. Cinnamon. Clove. Nutmeg. Medium to long in length. 

Overall: A very nice sherried malt. Similar to the Edition No. 1, but a little sweeter and richer, and, in my opinion, better. Definitely a step up from current bottlings of the Macallan 12 year. The nose is particularly nice, but there?s no major weak point. An all around enjoyable whisky. 

Value: A bit pricey, but pretty much in line with the pricing of other heavily sherried whiskies these days.

Buy again? Yeah, maybe. I?m not gonna run out and buy another bottle right away, but I might grab one sometime sooner or later. 

Score: 87/100 



Thanks for the review!  I have a bottle of #1 open and enjoy it. 

Slightly off topic, how is that Exclusive Blend in the background?  And what release is that exclusive malt?

Thanks!



It's good. I posted a review of it here. 

The Exclusive Malt in the background is Auchroisk 2003 11 year old. I just opened it the other day... enjoying it a lot so far. I plan to post a review sometime soon. 



Whiskey Network Review #78  r/Scotch Review #39

Price: $107

Appearance: 1.4 Tawny

Nose: Orange, Vanilla, Figs, artificial apple, caramel, cocoa, fruit cake

Taste: Sweet orange, figs, baking spice, apple, caramel, apricot, red plums, blackberry, cotton candy

Finish: Short, red fruits subtle spice

Notes: I reviewed Edition 1 yesterday so doing this while that is still fresh in my mind. I found #2 to be a little less complex than #1 and a bit more sweet. While #1 was nicely balanced with notes of oak and toasted nuts #2 is fruity and slightly spicy, there isn't many similarities  between the two. This reminds me of a more amplified version of their core sherry cask range and that is not a bad thing, I always wanted a bit more oomf out of core sherry range and this is a good representation of that what would be, I still think this is better than similar priced core range offerings. Both 1 & 2 were enjoyable enough that I will probably give #3 a shot when I see it on the shelf.

Something similar but better: Macallan Edition No. 1

Something similar but worse: Macallan 18

Rating: 7, #1 was on the high side of 7 and #2 just barely above the bar.

10  Desert island bottle

9   Personal favorite

8   I would like to keep a bottle of this open at all times

7   Good enough that I would buy another bottle at MSRP

6   Above average, could drink daily, stock up when on sale

5   Average\Run of the mill

4   Drinkable, but not my preference

3   I wouldn?t choose to drink this.

2   Just gulp it and get it over with

1   Couldn?t finish it



48.2% ABV

Nose: The nose needs to rest a minute or two to find its way.  If you dive in right away, all you really come away with is an astringent sulfur note.  Once settled, you get crumbly, caramelized sugar, candied ginger and low quality milk chocolate.  Orange marmalade with cooked pears.  Dry melba toast.  The nose lies somewhere between a sherry bomb and a hearty American Oak cask whisky.  There are hints of vanilla and pear juice, but they don't share the same intensity as the sherry notes.  Faint lime zest and butterscotch pudding.  Overall, it's a nice nose, provided you give it time.

Taste:  The arrival is a typical sherry forward Macallan.  Dried plums with cinnamon.  A dusting of cocoa powder and dark, bitter chocolate.  It starts the windup to becoming a full on sherry bomb, but as it develops, the feet come out from underneath it and the sherry notes fall quite a bit in intensity.  Syrupy pear and vanilla custard.  A good helping of oak and warm spices.  Nutmeg, ginger and clove.  Slightly bitter tea tannins.  The higher than usual ABV is a welcome addition from the standard Macallan bottling strengths.  It helps prolong the development and finish, which in my opinion would be rather short and uneventful if it were bottled at 40%-43% ABV.  Mandarin oranges soaked in rum.  Slightly nutty.

Finish: The finish fades slowly, but really doesn't stand out from the rest of the experience.  You get more of the same.  More plums and spice, along with oaky tannins.  The only newcomer to the experience is a mild licorice note.

A nice addition to the Macallan lineup, even if for a limited time.  The higher ABV is worth noting.  It helps lift and amplify everything that is going on in the nose and on the palate.  I really wish Macallan would bump up their ABV on much of their range.  Without it, I think this would be just another Macallan, good quality, but it wouldn't really stand out.  This has a little more life to it and provides a familiar Macallan experience, but it also has some characteristics from some good independent bottlings of Macallan.

87/100



The second in the edition series, The Mac teamed up with some fancy restaurant that I probably can?t afford to eat at, in order to pick some fancy casks for a pumped up ABV Mac offering.

Paid: $105

Distilled/Owned by: Macallan / Edrington Group

Region: Highland

48.2% ABV

Aged For: NAS

Chill Filtered/Color Added? : Chill Filtered / No color added

Color: Sunset yellow

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn 

Nose: Hazelnut, clove, sherry, chocolate, espresso, maple syrup, and berries.

Taste: Fig, oak, cinnamon, ginger, caramel and vanilla. Slight oiliness and very sweet.

Finish: Lingering gingersnap and sherry with a slight warmth.

Thoughts: I think the first edition was a bit ?Darker? and I preferred it a bit more. However an increased ABV and solid flavors, while keeping price (Modern pricing not historic) within reason makes this come recommended from me. 

Score: 86/100



Solid review, good job.

I think the first edition was a bit ?Darker? and I preferred it a bit more

Agree with this. To me this No.2 has more of the upfront sweet, light fruitiness that I also find in the recently released Double Cask 12 yo., which is nice if I'm in the mood for that but most of the time I prefer the more dry and restrained style of the No.1.

Chill Filtered/Color Added? : Chill Filtered 

Just FYI, whiskybase lists both the Edition No. 1 and No. 2 as nonchillfiltered. I do wonder where that info came from, as I can't find anything which says it is one way or the other on any of: the bottle, the box or Macallan's website. A curious omission for a whisky above 48%, but perhaps they don't want to throw shade on their other offerings by way of contrast and decided to just remain silent regarding the filtering or lack thereof.

Cheers



Thanks to /u/ScotchChick for the sample!  This was aged in four types of oak casks selected by the owners of ?El Celler de Can Roca?.  No age statement and coloring has most certainly been added.  Bottled at 48.2% ABV.

?

Nose: Sweet sherry.  Creamed caramel.  Toffee.  

Palate:  Thinner than I expected from the nose and ABV, but very round and smooth.  Dried fruits, more caramel.  Some spiciness, more than most Macallan, but not near as much as the Blair Athol that I had before this.

Finish: Medium short, dried fruit, oak, and some spiciness.  The spiciness lingers for awhile and is quite pleasant.

Score: 89/100

This actually turned out to be better than I expected it to be, given my experience with NAS Macallan.  Their 12 year is a staple in my liquor cabinet, since I can still get it for around $40.  But everything else they make seems overpriced.  This one is probably actually worth the $100 it goes for.  Straightforward but damned tasty and easy to drink.



Macallan Edition No. 2

(48.2%, NAS, natural colour, from handpicked casks from 4 different bodegas, ~$170 CAD)

?

Macallan Edition No.2 is the result of collaboration between Macallan and ?El Celler de Can Roca?, a 3 Michelin star restaurant in Spain twice voted the best restaurant in the world (in 2013 and 2015). For this expression, each Roca brother handpicked a cask, with Macallan?s master distiller adding one of his own picks to the mix:

Joan Roca, head chef, selected 1st and 2nd fill Diego Martin American and European oak casks for its green wood and toffee flavors

Jordi Roca, pastry chef, selected 1st and 2nd fill Vasyma American oak casks to include light vanilla and citrus notes

Joseph Roca, the sommelier, selected 1st fill Jose Miguel Martin European oak casks with spicy ginger notes

Bob Dalgarno selected 1st fill Tevasa European oak casks, for dried fruit and sherry notes

Additionally, the casks were a mix of 52% butt, 21% hogshead and 27% puncheon. Refreshingly, all this info was on the box (though they still missed some critical info? like how old this whisky is) :P

Thanks to u/DistillAsian for this sample!

?

Nose: Orange juice, toffee, red apple, tiramisu, golden raisins, dried apricot, hint of ginger baked goods

Taste: Caramel apples, ginger, dried apricots, vanilla bean, nutmeg, hazelnut, milk chocolate 

Finish: Wood, gingerbread, vanilla, cardamom

? 

The nose is fresh and fruity in combination with a sweet and airy dessert-like feel. Not as ?dark? as standard sherried Macallan, the notes are on the brighter side and lack the typical sherry feel. Texture is like slightly watered down syrup, starting off sweet and spicy before turning nutty and chocolaty on the back end. Finish was initially woody and a little bitter? and stayed like that for awhile. Fortunately, after 20 minutes or so, some sweet and spicy gingerbread notes (among others) emerged to pick up the finish. It?s the spiciness that lingers longest. 

What really drew me to this one was the proper ABV and lack of chill filtering giving this the potential to be something enjoyable (something I haven?t been able to say about Macallan for years now). Great nose, interesting taste? this fell a little short on the finish initially, but substantially more emerged over time (thankfully) to save it. All in all, though I had a little skepticism going in this was enjoyable and I liked it more than I expected. Now excuse me while I go find a bottle :) 

?

88/100



Thanks for the review. I haven't opened my bottle yet, but from a few of the samples I've tried, my thoughts line up with yours. Particularly this:

All in all, though I had a little skepticism going in this was enjoyable and I liked it more than I expected.

Any guesses as to it's youngest component? 



Definitely agree that there were some mature flavors in the mix as well that indicated a presence of older whisky... thinking in the 18-20 range perhaps? 

Wish more distilleries would go the route of CB with the willingness to at least give you the info via direct contact. 

Completely agreed



Also apparently not what the sub wants to hear :P

Nevertheless, I enjoyed this one despite my skepticism so whatever.



Review 79: Macallan No. 2 

Thanks /u/xile_ for the sample.  

Nose: Sweet sherry. Creamed caramel. Toffee, pepper, raisins + other dried fruit. 

Palate: Black pepper, not as bold as expected, sherry notes coming through, creamy, dried apricots caramel, cherries 

Finish: Medium, tons of black pepper, raisins, toffee, and oak. Not what I was expecting going in, but pleasantly surprised. 

Score: 87 

Overall, I was impressed by this. I am normally not a huge fan of Macallan releases, but this really resonated with me. Decent value compared to many of the recent Macallan releases as well, likely ending up with a bottle of this in the future. 



I personally wasn't that impressed. I had high hopes for the Edition bottles, however this just didn't do it for me. For $100 and all the hype around the barrel selection I was really expecting to be able to clearly taste the differences in the woods, yet I didn't find it any more complex than anything from the normal MacAllan Range.  

It is really sad because I used to almost exclusively drink Macallan, but given the price that their new ageless bottles are being sold at, and the general lack in quality that they seem to be bringing to the table, it is becoming harder and harder to remain loyal to the brand. 



Mystery sample from /u/msaz

Scoring legend:



Macallan Edition 1

Matured in ?8 unique American and European Oak Cask Styles?, and it sounds like all were sherry seasoned (American Oak does not preclude sherry seasoning). Fancy schmancy.
NAS, 48% abv. Thanks to /u/majorhop for the sample.

Nose - Obvious sherry influence right away. I get toffee, lots of baking spice (black pepper, cinnamon, clove), gingerbread, oranges, red berries, and some chocolatey oak in the background. Spice notes are rather vibrant, and it comes off a bit young, but pleasant.

Palate - Fruity right off the bat - I get the orange and berry notes first, along with some slightly tannic oak, honey, pepper, cinnamon and nutmeg.  Medium body, seems slightly watery and ?smooth?.

Finish - Increasing oak and spice notes underpinned by the honey and sweet fruitiness. Long.

Pretty nice stuff - for the most part, well balanced and full flavored, even if the oak can get just a touch astringent at times (not anywhere near enough to ruin this stuff). ___________________________________________________________________________________________

Macallan Edition 2

Apparently this was a collaboration between Bob Dalgarno, Mac?s Head Whisky maker, and the owners of El Celler de Can Roca, ?twice named best restaurant in the world?. Sounds fancier yet, until I read it only has 7 cask types...sigh. NAS, 48.2% abv. Thanks to /u/ATLien050 for the sample.

Nose - Oranges are quite prominent, with toffee, oak, black pepper, plenty of baking spice again (cinnamon, clove), and a hint of amaretto in the background. A bit less fruity than Edition 1, with some more toffee and oak.

Palate - Toffee, gingerbread, baking spice, orange liqueur, amaretto, oak, black pepper. Nicely balanced and full flavored. Full, almost oily feel to it - Mac can provide some nice texture when they aren?t chill filtering the shit out of their whisky.

Finish - Gets increasingly peppery and oaky here, with oranges, cinnamon, nutmeg, amaretto and toffee.

Again, quite tasty. Vibrant spice notes at work here again, with some nice sherried fruitiness. One of the better NAS offerings I?ve had, but when it comes to NAS sherried Scotch, nothing, including this, tops the A?Bunadh. I think I slightly prefer this to Edition 1 due to better balance (the oak is better integrated and not astringent) and it being fuller bodied, despite enjoying the berry notes Edition 1 had.

Both of these are quite nice, if a little expensive for what they are. That said, given Macallan?s normal pricing strategy of gouging the status (and ?smoothness?) seeking, these are practically a steal - but for $100, I?d have a hard time springing for these given the competition. Oh, and the old Cask Strength is way better than either of these.

Edition 1 - 86/100

Edition 2 - 88/100

Edited for formatting.



I was at a friend's place over the weekend in Windsor, while visiting the Hiram Walker Distillery, Canadian Club Brand Centre and Wolfhead Distillery, and happened to also try a few whiskies at his place. He travels to Kentucky a lot for business, so he's picked up some pretty interesting bottles over the past few years. I've posted a bunch of bourbons/ryes as well, but here are the scotches I tried. Notes will be a bit terse, as we were there primarily to socialize and I didn't spend the same amount of time or attention as I normally would if reviewing at home. 

Seems everyone is reviewing this one lately! glad macallan put something out at a higher proof.

Nose: Oranges, Sherry, dried fruit, juicy, caramel, some spices

Palate: Sherry, cherry, strawberry, spices, nutmeg, cinnamon, cloves, juice. Great amount of flavour for a non-CS sherried dram. 

Finish: Short sweet and oaky

Score: 85/100

quite nice overall. I've had some nicer sherried drams, but few at this ABV beat it. 

The other scotch I tried at his place was the Glenrothes 1988, bottled in 2011, so approximately 23yrs old. He told me to give it a try and I was happy to take a little pour as this is a $500 bottle!

Nose: Sherry, juicy, red fruit, strawberry, raspberry, very sweet, orange peel, baking spices

Palate: Very sweet, juicy, red fruit, strawberry, so sweet, so fruity, damn. Not a lot of oak, delicious sherry bomb, some oak spiciness and baking spices, cloves, candy-like character.  

Finish: very long & sweet

Score: 88/100

this is a very nice sherry bomb. Not usually a fan of it this sweet but it was well done and somehow really sweet without being cloying. The only thing holding this back from being an incredible dram is the low proof. quite nice overall. I've had some nicer sherried drams, but few at this ABV beat it. Was debating giving it an 89, but this score seemed appropriate given the distillation year!