I managed to get a chance to try the new line of Macallan last night and had the presence of mind to scrawl some notes down. I hadn't had a Macallan before this, so I had no reference point for how the new stuff compares to the old. 

All of the 1824 series uses Oloroso sherry casks exclusively in the aging process.

Macallan Gold

40% ABV

Colour: Pale gold

Nose: Citrus fruit. Lemons and oranges. Almost an agave, tequila-like smell to it. Honey and flowers. Slight raisins.

Palate: Citrus, honey, cereal grain. Medicine and sugar. 

Finish: Medicine on the tongue, slighty soapiness at first. Peppery on tongue which develops into a ginger taste. 

This is alright. Probably somewhat on par with the Singleton of Glendullan. It isn't offensive (Aside from that strange tequila smell, which reminds me of Glen Parker) but lacks real depth. 

68/100

Macallan Amber

40% ABV

Colour: Petrol

Nose: Sherry, stewed fruit, caramel. A mild smokiness? Pears, spiced raisins. Nice. 

Palate: Citrus peel and sherry. Salt and flowers, with peppery, cinnamon raisins. 

Finish: Peppery. Medium strength, but pipes a sherry pepper mix up your nose. Tingles the tongue. Warming. Nice length to it; lingers. 

Prefer this one to the Gold, for sure. It's inoffensive as well, but you see more of the sherry influence in this one. Nothing really surprising in it, but it holds up well.

72/100

Macallan Sienna

43% ABV

Colour: Amber / dark sawdust.

Nose: Salt and sherry. Citrus. Toffee. Fudge. Spiced fruit. Toasted oak. Nice. 

Palate: Salty kick right off the bat. Sherry and citrus. Spiced fruit. Warm and oily mouthfeel. Apple peel. Chocolate. Better with a splash of water to help the subtler flavours come out. Really nice. Everything works together quite well. 

Finish: Warming and a sharp peppery bite at first, but smooths out really quickly. Surprisingly smooth, actually. Oily residue slips about your mouth and keeps a sherry taste lingering quite some time. Really nice. 

Nicer with water, but this is miles above the gold and amber.

87/100

Macallan Ruby

43% ABV

Colour: Deep amber. Chestnut. Macallan CS -1.

Nose: Chocolate. Sherry. Stewed red fruit. Soft honey. Oak. Spice. Cinnamon and ginger. Rum raisins. Fudge and caramel. There's a lot here; It seems every time I bring my nose back I smell something new. 

Palate: Sherry and spice. Ginger and floral notes compliment spiced plums. Peppery kick. Chocolate, fudge and raisins. Very nice flavours that work well together. Oily mouthfeel.

Finish: Sherry flows over my tongue. Sharp at first but mellows out. Good length to it and you can feel it continuously coating your mouth. Warming. Not as good as the finish on the CS or the Sienna, but still really nice. Simple, but long and pleasing. 

I definitely like this one the most. I don't think it's as good as the Macallan CS, which I tried later that same evening, but it's a pleasant dram. I loved the nose and palate.

90/100



Wow.  So did they say anything about how this line will get rolled out?  Is it completely replacing the current offerings?

Mac 12 is so much the whisky I have thought of as the prototypical "sherry bomb" that it will be weird to have that cornerstone being phased out.



While I do agree they're going to be replacing the whole line eventually, these four are replacing the standard offerings under 18 years. So the FO 10, 12, 15, 17 and Sherry 10, 12 won't be available.

Plus, what DustyWeasel said below. They're phasing it out in different markets first.



Review #40 - Macallan Amber

I detest the Macallan NAS trend but at a restaurant this was the most intriguing on the menu.

?

Rested 10 minutes ? tumbler 

?

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Colour: watered-down honey

?

Nose:floral honey, light sherry, nougat

Taste: oak, incredibly watered down sherry, simple syrup. It's smooth though. Bit floral

Finish: short not memorable. Honey, some oak, meh

Conclusion: I guess all I can say is that I?m glad this isn?t the Macallan Gold?

All in all it?s a pretty ok dram.  Perhaps not as terrible as I wanted it to be.  For the money, it goes without saying you can do much much better. 

Probably a pretty boring dram for my fortieth review.  Will have to make it up to myself.

Score

77/100



thanks for reading!

Perfect way to put it!



I have a bottle of the Ruby I picked up when the bottle I went to buy was unavailable unexpectedly and I was offered a pretty decent discount on the Ruby by way of recompense.

Like your impressions, mine was of a decent quality albeit somewhat bland dram, but not at all good value for money - even with the discount.

Certainly not awful, but not compelling in any way, shape or form either.



Thanks for reading!

I think you've put this perfectly, decent but not compelling in any way, shape or form. It's such a shame because the distillery used to have amazing single malts with amazing quality.



For 300 a bottle they can shove the 18 up where the sun don't shine. I can get 3 bottles of glendronach 21 or a 20+ year old single cask for that. And the 25 year going for almost a 1000 is even more obscene. I'd rather buy two benriach 35's for that.

I have tasted the 18 and it's good, but absolutely not 300 euro good. 



Completely agreed!  I've had the 18 as well and while the nose is impressive, the dram overall was a let down and not worth anywhere near what the current going rate is.

Hopefully, BenRiach prices remain the same, however they appear to be inching up after they were acquired by Brown-Forman



Thanks!

True - there is much more quality than I thought here, but not anywhere near what it previously used to be (or so I have heard many times).  What a shame, but they still sell a lot of single malt to people obsessed with the Macallan brand.



Thanks for reading!

I wanted to give it a much lower score, I truly truly did, but I did feel that this was not terrible.  Just terrible in the sense of what Macallan used to be.  Tasted blind it would be alright probably.



I was fortunate enough to make it to a free Macallan tasting session.  Cocktails and nibbles were served in advance and then we were given a wonderful Macallan propaganda presentation as we sipped.

All of these are NAS, Natural colour, aged in sherry oak.

Macallan Gold

Nose: Spirit, wood, sugar, sherry, orange, cereal, caramel, grain.  Actually delightful.

Palate: Young spirit, cardboard, sherry, lemon.

Finish: Lemon, Spray Cleaner.

VERY unimpressive.  Haven't tried many Macallan's but his is by far the worst.  Drinkable at 68/100.

Macallan Amber

Nose: Sherry, Raisins, Brown Sugar, Wood, Fruit.

Palate: Wood, sherry, cinnamon, toffee, ginger.  Cardboard again.

Finish: Spices, fall fruits.

A small step above the gold at 70/100

Macallan Sienna 

Nose: MMMmm Sweet Sherry, sugar, richer, deeper more complex nose than the above two.  Starting to get a hint of the sherry I associate with Macallan.

Palate: Raisins, wood.  Complex.

Finish: Spices and Wine.

Most interesting and complex of the evening, but I still prefer the 12 Sherry significantly.

Score: 80/100

Macallan Ruby

Nose: Sweet, deep sherry.  Finally.

Palate: Rich, smooth, cinnamon, raisins.  Again, finally that sherry I like.

Finish: Lingering spices.  Not too long.

Supposedly aged between 18 and 25 years.

Score: 86/100

So what to say?  Ultimately an unimpressive range.  The Ruby, which runs close to $300 where I am, isn't much better than the old 12 Sherry.  The most interesting thing was the strong wood taste in each of the expressions.  Quite a nice characteristic in fact.  But all of these are a far cry from, say, the Cask Strength we know and love.  

I don't know Macallan? 



Ultimately an unimpressive range

Pretty much sums it up. There are other distilleries offering far better for far less compared to this range.



Toronto? I was there too! 

And no, Macallan says all their colour is natural. 



Been busy with work (so avoiding reddit.. /r/scotch is my only exception) so here's a quick one.. The Macallan Amber - 1824 Series Whisky. My first Macallan, but I will not be making any judgements based on this.

It?s.. it?s just not good. I got this in a set of drinks by the dram from masterofmalt.. It was by far the worst and after looking up how much a bottle should cost I am shocked!!



Greetings Scotchit! Tonight I'm reviewing a whisky from one of my least favourite distilleries. Not for the quality of their malts, because I haven't had very many of them, but rather because of the insane marketing department that seems to run the distillery.

This is one the brainchilds of that department. Named after its colour (seriously?), this is Macallan Amber. Is it any good?

Let's find out!

Macallan Amber
Speyside, 40%, chill-filtered, no E150?, 60ml sample

Nose: Sherry. Apricot and peach. Mandarin. Malt. Oak. Nutmeg and cinnamon. Raspberry. Hint of ginger. Slightly youthful.

Clearly sherried, but also fruity and lightly spiced. It's a bit young-smelling, though, but that makes a lot of sense. 

Taste: Creamy, but somewhat thin. Young. Lightly bitter. Sweet malt. Sherry. French oak apricot. 

Eh, pretty decent. Not inspiring as such - Aberlour 12 NCF has a much more substantial mouthfeel. Not an impressive sherried whisky, but not terrible either. 

Finish: Medium-short. Creamy malt. Sherry. Apricots. Mandarin. Bitter oak. 

Not much happening, but not offensive either. 

Summary: In just about every way I can state this: meh. It's not terrible, but it's really not special compared to what you can get around this price range. As mentioned, Aberlour 12 NCF, Glenfarclas 12/15, GlenDronach 15, Balvenie 12 DoubleWood, etc.

But that said, it's fine. I can't compare this to Macallan 12, because I haven't had it, so I can't say if this is better or worse. I don't think anyone should be buying this, anyway, if only to dissuade Macallan from its current strategies. 

Score: 72/100
Meh.

Most Similar To: Aberlour 12 NCF, GlenDronach 12, Glenfarclas 12, Balvenie 12 DoubleWood.

Buy Again? No.



It's not terrible, but it's really not special

I disagree.. I think this is terrible whisky! Gave it 65, and just thinking about it makes me angry.



Hi Scotchit! Ever had a miniature from Macallan? They come with a little cork too. Speaking of Macallan: a few nights ago I dreamt of a Macallan that got 46%. The next day I grabbed my last CS and hugged it firmly... Sigh...

The Macallan Amber

Speyside, 40%

nose: raisins, roasted apples, floral, caramel, vanilla, marshmallows, oak, citrus

taste: raisins, cinnamon, bubble-gum, Sherry, apples, honey, vanilla, oranges, toffee

finish: Sherry, mint, white grapes, almonds, ginger, woodspice

Very beautiful nose. Quite watery on the palate. Relatively short but nice finish. Unmistakable Macallan. Very drinkable.

This is not bad and would be great at craft presentation. It doesn't even seem too young, it's just the low ABV and chill-filtration that doesn't fit here. It's a shame.

77/100



The Macallan is a brand of single malt most whisky aficionados are well acquainted with. Everyone knows that Macallan make good whisky, and everyone knows that their thing is sherry. The problem with everyone knowing this is that with the current whisky boom, demand for Macallan is through the roof.
I?m personally not a huge fan myself. I?ve always found their bottlings a little overpriced, not bad whisky in any way, but I can find whisky of the same caliber for a much lower price. Their clientele are an odd mix of the show-off collector types as well as the true whisky lovers, though they tend to focus their marketing on the former. But they
Anyways, possibly due to the immense demand, although nothing confirmed, Macallan replaced their two core bottlings, exclusively sherry matured 12 and 18 year old expressions, with a slightly expanded range of age stated expressions matured in a variety of cask types, named Fine Oak.
A while after that, they changed their core range again to the 1824 series. In this they had done away with the age statements altogether. Instead each expression was named after a progressively darker colour, namely Gold, Amber, Sienna and Ruby, probably indicating an increasing proportion of sherry matured whisky in its makeup.
I was curious about these whiskies as it?s a huge change for such an established brand like Macallan, however they?re still overpriced, so I just got myself a sample of each and had a go.

Macallan Gold

Aged 3 years *. 40% ABV. No colourant added.

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Light fruit, peaches, apricots, soft pear. Lemon curd. Wood shavings. Parmesan cheese. Slight soapy note.

? Palate: Feels quite thin. Bitter wood. Orange peel. Sultanas. Lemon zest. Acetone.

? Finish: Bitter. Acetone. Slightly salty. Not much here really.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: No

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 3/5

Fades too fast. The nose is decent, not complex but pleasant, but the palate is unbalanced and ends on a pretty nasty note with carries through into the finish, if one could call it that.

Macallan Amber

Aged 3 years *. 40% ABV. No colourant added.

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Yellow cherries. Marmalade. Toffee. Caramel pudding. Stewed pears. Pine. Slight sulphur and ethanol.

? Palate: Still thin feeling but more flavour here than the Gold. Jaffa cakes. Marmalade. Amaretto. Slightly nutty wood. 
A little bitter on the swallow, but in a good way.

? Finish: Short. Bitter wood. Orange peel. Cloves. Allspice.

Would I buy this: No
Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 3/5

Not bad this. It had quite a bit more flavour to it than the Gold, and was on the whole quite pleasant. It had quite a bit of bitterness and spiciness to it but in a refreshing kind of way.

Macallan Sienna

Aged 3 years *. 43% ABV. No colourant added.

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Raspberries. Charred fruits. Marmalade. Slight woodsmoke. Vanilla pods. Sticky toffee pudding. Milk chocolate. Sulphur.

? Palate: Fresh linen. Cloves. Vanilla essence. Cacao. Black cherries. Dried orange peel. Pickled ginger.

? Finish: Medium. Ginger. Woodspice. Honey. Plums.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 2/5

We?re starting to feel the sherry influence here. This had some good notes to it, but also some unbalanced bitter ones which I didn?t find very refreshingly pleasant like the Amber.

Macallan Ruby

Aged 3 years *. 43% ABV. No colourant added.

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Dusty. Nutty wood. Sherry. Orange peels. Lilacs. Prunes. Very slight woodspice notes, need to work to notice them.

? Palate: Ginger. Bitter wood. Somewhat unpleasant soapy note, unbalanced sherry maybe. Very nutty sherry.

? Finish: Medium. Bitter. Nutty sherry. Raisins. Cloves. Pepper.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: No

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 1/5

This was a miss for me. This cost double the price of the expression one tier below and it?s not worth it. I found it hard to get any unique notes out of it, and some of the more dominant notes were quite unpleasant. The sherry character here was very pronounced, but I found it weird and unbalanced.

Well, that was a fun experiment. Unfortunately these expressions pale in comparison to the older age stated ones. I think they might even have been replaced by now, Macallan is churning out these NAS expressions at such a rate that it?s hard to keep up.
The Sienna and Amber were decent enough and drinkable, just nothing really unique that would make me want them over any other light, Highland/Speyside whisky, like Glengoyne for example.

Reviewed in my blog:
https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2017/05/13/the-macallan-1824-selection/

EDIT: Formatting



spreading false information

But it's all we know. By definition the youngest spirit in the vatting must be at least 3 years old. And that's it. Distilleries do not give an agestatement for a reason. Everything else is just gospel, hearsay or most likely false. But that doesn't make the spirit in the bottle better or worse.



Shane_il explains why he tags them as 3 years old, so that seems cool.

And besides, what is the basis of your guesses that "the average NAS is more around 6-8 with some hitting 8-12"?



No I'm not. I clearly state that the reason I'm making my statement is because they do not carry an age statement. Thus one can assume that they must be aged at least 3 years. It's the only assumption about the age one can actually make.

If you follow my reviews you might notice that when there is a press release or some confirmation of the age of an NAS  expression I will say so next to the little asterisk as well. But if it's not on the label it doesn't go into the heading. 

As for people with less knowledge, 5 minutes on Google inquiring about "lack of age statement" and "3 years" will give them vast amounts of information and varied opinions on the topic, if they're not willing to put the effort into that then it's not my problem. 



another family thing, another night of scotch! this time my cousin-in-law-to-be pulled out a Christmas gift he got from his brother in law... Macallan Amber. We had a few hefty pours while playing a game of Cards Against Humanity and hilarity ensued. I took some mental notes for this review... wrote them down when i got back but my memory was a little hazy. let's see how it did.

Appearance:   orange-amber-gold

Nose:  very sweet. Sherry aroma dominates completely. Some spices

Taste:  heavy sherry, somewhat malty. Incredibly sweet. Some cinnamon spice. Brown sugar. 

Finish:  short and sweet. 

Rating: 79  

tasty but uninspiring. Somewhat one-note with the sweetness. Very inoffensive and newer scotch drinkers will love it for its accessibility, such as my future-brother-in-law who loved it and drank quite a bit tonight. Wouldn't spend money on it given the price vs quality ratio. 



Easy on the spoilers in the title!

Nice review.
Have you had the younger age stated Macallan's? 



i haven't actually. only other Macallan I've had is the CS (which i enjoyed thoroughly)

i figured the title is like a TL;DR :P



After having tried both the Macallan gold and amber before and having tried a fair few myself, I think that a bottle that you should try to find is the Macallan 16 y/o fine oak.

It's sweet and smokey and isn't overly peaty, especially for a smokey tasting whisky. It's got a soft taste and very drinkable. The smell can be a bit confusing due to being sweet, yet it's also very fresh from the oak barrel that it has been fermenting in. 

It's a high class bottle that I would recommend. 

Thought i would keep this in the Macallan line of sight rather than veering off onto many other whiskys I have tried and love.



Hello again everyone,

Back again today with some more of my adventure.

First thing I did today was go to a tour at Speyside Cooperage which was really interesting. You don't really get much for your ?3.50 (15 min video then a viewing gallery into the Cooperage) but it was pretty mesmerising to see the coopers at work. 

After that I just about had time for a tour at Glen Grant. 45 mins, ?5 and you get to taste the Major's Reserve and the 10yo. Since I was driving I took some away in a sample bottle and tried later. Guide seemed a little nervous and might have been new.

?

Glen Grant 40% (2016 packaging)

Colour: Gold

Body: Light

Nose: Fragrant, fruity and perfumed. Melon and banana, heady women's perfume, orange blossom, orange peel, lemon.

Taste: Soft. Sweet and perfumed, flowers, orange blossom, orange peel, fragrant oak, lemon pith, some chocolate into the finish.

Finish: Medium length. Chocolate and oak.

Notes: Nice nose, lackluster finish.

67/100

?

Next up was Macallan, which I was expecting big things from. Horst Leuning suggested it as his distillery to visit as a connoisseur. 1 hour, 30 mins, ?10 and 4 tasters (all pretty small but some rarer stuff too). Plus all four tasters I hadn't tried before. Very professional and friendly guide who knew a lot about just about everything.

?

Macallan 12 Fine Oak 40%

Colour: Gold

Body: Medium

Nose: Aromatic. Very malty and oily. Nutty, Sherry, honey, honeysuckle, little floral notes- Heather, milk chocolate. 

Taste: Oily, nutty, very malty, Sherry and vanilla, lots of honey, more oily malt, Macademia nut.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Nutty and then oily and cloying.

71/100

?

Macallan Amber 40%

Colour: Light Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Malty and oily, Sherry, wood spice, nutty, oily nuts, fresh barley, raisin, biscuit.

Taste: Very soft arrival, raisin, biscuit, malt, barley, spices building up, then some harsh oak and tannins, but recedes into the finish.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Oily malt and oaky spices.

69/100

?

Macallan 12 Sherry 40%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Lovely. Heavy and fat. Sherry, nuts, oily, malt, earthiness, raisin, dark chocolate.

Taste: Soft, Sherry, nutty, oily, oily malt, barley, raisin, honey, dark chocolate, good quality coffee.

Finish: Medium length. Good quality dark chocolate and great coffee.

Notes: Great stuff. Can't believe this was discontinued in most markets.

73/100

?

Macallan 18 Fine Oak 43%

Colour: Dark Gold

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Lovely, very perfumed, perfume, men's cologne, aromatic spice, cinnamon bark, honeysuckle, orange blossom, orange peel, orange juice.

Taste: Soft arrival, lots of honey, honeysuckle, floral, perfumed, manly cologne, musk, old oak, sandalwood, some tannins, Sherry, toffee, chocolate and dark coffee.

Finish: Medium/Long length. Toffee, honey and spiced oak.

Notes: I didn't know they did this. Thought the 21yo was the next step up from the 15 fine oak.

78/100

?

Another great day, hopefully more tomorrow. I think Glenfarclas and Glendronach.



Reviews #155-#159

Network Average: 74.5

Best Score: 91

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



We were just there a week ago during torrential downpours and the guy gave us some 16 to try also. Was quite good, but hard to stand against the ten. 

Did you try to get into Balvenie? It blows all other tours out if the water, but VERY hard to get in. If you're solo, it might be easier. ?35 for about 3.5 hours and 5 tastings  (6 of you join warehouse 24 for free before) 

Sign with number



Happy Holidays folks. Or non folks, if you aren't folks, filks. Or something. I don't really know.

Right now I'm trying to get my Crown before I go to Montreal for New Years. Which I'm excited about. A lot.

Anyway, I've been interested in the 1824 series for quite a long time. At first I played it off as dumb. Let's be honest: We're adults. We can read, and be interested in whisky, and if something says "12 sherry oak", we can look up which sherry or how long or anything like that. Instead we are told colours.

And that seems a little silly.

Anyway, as I learn more, I find out that it's 100% sherry casked, and there's no added colour. And that, in and of itself, made my ears perk up. Sure, it's NAS. But there's a lot of NAS and that's here to stay now. I personally wish they would just genital-up and put the age, even if it's young.

So here's the second in the line-up, Macallan Amber. Named after a Stripper who wears panties that are the same colour.... if I was in charge.

Anyway, that's all I have on this, so let's see how it tastes, shall we?

Price: $99.95 (CAD) at the LCBO

Region; Speyside

Abv: 40%

Colour: I'm suppose to say "Amber" here, but I'll say 7.5YR 5/8

Nose: Raisin, fig, raspberry, orange, musk, caramel, mushroom

Sherry influence is evident ehre, more so than the Gold. Wonder what kind of sherry it was... maybe oloroso? Probably. How's the weather?

The musk and mushroom elements are a little stronger than I'd want.

Taste: Raisin, caramel, strawberry, clove, pepper

Light notes throughout. It's a good blend of whisky and sherry, however it's not too complex and the flavours are missing some of their vibrancy.

Like, I'm sitting here, as I write this (in the past) eating some blue cheese, and it is missing some of the balls to the wall flavour too, so these match up in some ways. Or disgusted you, because it's blue cheese and you don't like it.

Because there's something wrong with you.

Finish: Raisin, dust, raspberry, ginger, carrot, mushroom

The earth is too strong on the finish, however not in a "gross" way, more so in a technical sense.

Very short finish as well.

Conclusion: Nice nose, okay (if weak) taste, and blah finish. Is it amazing? No, not really. I see what they were going for, and there's evidence of good balance in the taste and nose. I wish that it wasn't watered down to 40%, because I really think it could have shined more.

Oh well. Maybe next time Macallan.

76/100

Scotch review #399, Speyside review #120, Whisky Network review #609

Other Macallan reviews:

Macallan Fine Oak 10

Macallan Fine Oak 12

Macallan Fine Oak 15

Macallan Fine Oak 17

Macallan Fine Oak 21

Macallan Gold

Macallan Select Oak

Macallan Sherry Cask 12

Macallan Sherry Cask 18

Macallan Sherry Cask Strength

Macallan Sienna

Link to my website with all my reviews



I went to The Macallan's free event in DC with a buddy and clued him in on their marketing shift to deemphasize age statements and promote color as indicative of quality. With that in mind, it was almost comical how often they'd shoehorn comments about color into the presentations. 

I was really bummed at the end when the final dram was Rare Cask instead of the 18 Sherry.  



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.45   

Standard Deviation = 10.14  

Skewness = -2.67874 

Kurtosis = 10.73311 

Median = 80 

IQR = 8



That's a shame... So the rare Cask, Amber and Ruby suck... So have about the Sienna? Has anyone tasted that? It was 3 euro for a glass so after the amber I passed. 

Such a shame they discontinued everything under 18(?) YO



I've been to the Burgundy Lion (good selection, small pours) and L'ile Noire (slightly less good selection, better size pours). The selection of both of these is available online. I haven't been to Big in Japan but heard it's pretty nice, I'll have to check it out next time I'm up there. 

What impressed me was how cheap the pours were compared to the US considering how expensive the bottles are in their shops - doesn't make sense to me. 