Thank you to /u/toadpooh for the Laphraoig samples. I was going to review Lore as well but I ended up forgetting to take notes so I substituted for Mac12.

Laphroaig 2015 Cairdeas -

Color: Light Yellow

Nose: Paint, Peat Smoke, Black Pepper

Mouth: Gentle Smoke, Black Pepper, Tobacco, Citrus

Finish: Medium, Sawdust, Cigar, Black Pepper

89/100 Took the photo a bit late into the review, not much left before I snapped a picture. Don?t know where that paint came from but it took me back to painting in kindergarten. It?s a good smell though, I really dig this pour.

Laphroaig 2016 Madeira -

Color: Yellowish Orange

Nose: Sweet Peat, Berry, Minor Smoke, Light Apple

Mouth: Fruit, Sweet Berry, Cinnamon, Black Pepper, Zest

Finish: Medium punch and dies out pretty quick, Black Pepper, Zesty, Cinnamon, Caramel

90/100 Delicious, sweeter than I thought it was going to be. This sets the mood, make me want it to be winter and smoke a cigar in front of a fireplace.

Macallan 12 Year -

Color: Amber

Nose: Oak, Bread, dark red wine, raisins

Mouth: Chocolate, Vanilla, Sugar Cookie

Finish:Mellow, Spice

77/100 Not that into it, I am glad I was able to get a dram and not a bottle.



I made the mistake of buying a bottle of the Macallan. I had to force myself to finish it off, because I hate to waste perfectly good alcohol. It's the other things that they put in the bottle that weren't so good. 

As for the 2015 and 2016 Laphroaig Cairdeas, On the 2015 I got a lot of floral notes in the nose, and a strong vanilla/caramel  component. I can't keep my nose out of the glass when I'm having a dram. The 2016 I found to be very well balanced, sweet as noted, and with a very nice wine component. Not like a sherry finish at all, but much more sophisticated. If all I could get to drink was this whisky, I would be content. Your image of "setting the mood" is quite true.



I'd say you got the score exactly right with this review (though I don't know what surgical gloves smell like). The grassy/wood notes are oak from the casks, generally I get raisins,  cinnamon and a little vanilla on the palate. 

In recent bottlings, the finish has really been diminished and, overall, it feels like Macallan is reserving their first-fill sherry casks for the foundation of their Sienna and Ruby 1824 NAS stuff. It also feels like there is something "synthetic" going on (I've heard that they have sherry production just for creating casks).

It's still good, their actual spirit is still excellent (that to me is their saving grace) but it ain't what it used to be.



Macallan 12

Region: Highlands

ABV: 43.0%

My Price: $59

Final Thoughts: A very decent dram that does a lot of things very well but none of them great. As this is my 1st Macallan it would likely take some convincing for me to pony up more money for their other expressions.

Score: 83



Scotchit Review #16-17 Aberlour 12 NCF and Macallan 12 side by side. 

Sample of the Aberlour obtained via r/scotchswap from /u/Ethanized. As I prepare for my trip to Scotland in a few weeks, I'm working through my remaining samples. Best to have a better idea what to look for when I'm there.  I didn't intend this as a side by side, but half way through the Aberlour I wanted to compare it to something. Got some Macallan 12 and here we are.  But that's why there's no picture of the Macallan. 

Consumed neat in a Copita and a similar stemless glass.  I felt like a different glass tonight.  

abv: 48% for the Aberlour. 43% for Macallan 

color Golden amber, with light pinkish hue from the sherry casks. Aberlour is a little darker and more pink. 

Aberlour 12 NCF

Nose: Raspberries with cream. Shortbread. Then darker fruits...dates or figs? A little cereal grain.  Just a whiff of ethanol. 

Taste:  A little surprising heat. The red fruits, vanilla and shortbread are there, blending like a raspberry, vanilla custard tart.  But then some oak shows up, lending some wood spice and tannin. 

Finish:  Rather warming. Somehow a Scotch at 48% can be more warming than Bourbon at over 50%. Quite long, sweet cereal and creamy berries. Muted, like a creamsicle is to oranges, but with raspberry. Really nice. 

Macallan 12 (Sherry cask) 

Nose Much more cereal forward and less red fruit on the nose, but Strawberries are there. Vanilla.  Prominent honey that is missing from the Aberlour.  Almost no alcohol. 

Taste  Very refined (I won't say "smooth") and very well integrated.  Honey cereal and shortbread cookies, with just a hint of strawberry.  Nothing amiss. No harshness, not very tannic. 

Finish  Shorter, less warming but very nice and the strawberry flavor actually shows up more here along with some sweet shortbread cookie. 

Conclusion:  Turned out more interesting with the side by side. I really like the Aberlour 12 NCF, but I gained some respect for the Macallan now on my third dram of it.  I think the Aberlour is better, it's bolder, has more aggressive flavors (Sherry in particular) and a bit more alcohol punch. But I can see why people like the Macallan.  It's flavors were woven together a little better and it has no missteps. The finish was probably the biggest gap, with the Aberlour winning there. Nose, slight edge to Aberlour and taste was about a tie.  Scores: B+ at 88 for Aberlour NCF and a high B at 86/100 for the Macallan. 

EDIT: spelling fixed.  I'm used to Irish spellings. 



I love that you misspelled Macallan throughout the review. Because fuck the Edrington Group.

I hope the Aberlour 12 NCF comes back into distro soon because it's a great bang-for-your-buck sherried Speyside.



Holy crap.  Never even looked at the label. 

In my market the Aberlour NCF is fully $30 more.  Maybe that changes if it really comes back. But it sure isn't $30 better.  



damn really? Is it that Mac 12 is just that expensive where you are?
you can get Mac 12 for 44 for in MA, which by scotch standards around here anyway, is pretty cheap for something that isn't glenlivet or glenfiddich (and in my opinion much better).  

EDIT: Balvenie 12 double is more like 50-60 around here for more context of something a bit more similar than livet or glenfiddich



I didn't expect it to fare so well honestly. But it's nice stuff.   It's cheaper for me than other options ($43), so may become something I keep on hand. 

Edit: looking again I think it was $45-46



That's a decent price. You're sure it's not the 10yr right?

One of the major complaints I see about the 12yr actually is that it's "overpriced." But I regularly see it for $45-$50 which is totally in line with other entry level sherried malts like Glenfarclas 12 or Aberlour 12, and I've liked it more than those.



Glad you liked the NCF! 

Over here it's right between the 12 and A'bunadh in price, but it drinks closer to A'bunadh in terms of heat. So if I want a light dram I get the 12, if I want something potent I go for the A'bunadh. Doesn't leave much time for the NCF. 



Glad you liked the NCF! 

Over here it's right between the 12 and A'bunadh in price, but it drinks closer to A'bunadh in terms of heat. So if I want a light dram I get the 12, if I want something potent I go for the A'bunadh. Doesn't leave much time for the NCF. 



Over the weekend, I enjoyed some scotch.  Also, hat tip to /u/Enord92 who did this same review combo a year ago and whose picture I stole for the link.

Ardbeg Uigeadail

Nose-Peat! Some brine, hint of gasoline, 7Up, smoke

Palate-peat smoke, brine, pine needles, and wait?what?s this..? bacon! Extra crispy bacon and bacon fat.

Finish-the gently burnt bacon/bacon fat note is wonderful and lasts for a while.

Overall-Mostly, this is a special whisky and one of my favorites.  That said, every once in a while I?ll pick up a tar/burning rubber note that doesn?t appeal to me.  Also: bacon!!

93/100

Next...

Macallan 12

Nose-Sherry! Jam fruit (maybe grape), some honey. Lovely

Palate-sweet arrival, red fruit, sherry.  

Finish-I?ll say medium.

Overall-It?s good.  When I think sherried scotch, I think Macallan.  A classic that sets a standard which, lately, is being equaled and surpassed with increasing frequency.  Generally, I find that the Mac 12 has a thinner mouthfeel versus other sherry cask scotches of similar age.  

86/100



You can't fight in here, this is the War Room!

Also, nice reviews. :)



Are you aware, Mandrake, that right now there are plans to flouridate scotch?  

Nice reviews!



A few years ago one of my relatives, who works at an duty free shop along the border, found a couple of cases of Macallan 12 during inventory that weren?t on the books. Apparently this is a huge no-no (due to the regulations around duty free warehousing) so the manager told him to take them out to the dumpster and destroy them. Somehow they ended up in the trunk of his car and not in the dumpster, Uh-Oh. So he had 24, 1.13L bottles of this stuff. Needless to say they were handed out around family like candy. Mine was long gone a few years ago, but sometimes when I go visiting some of the family who aren't big scotch drinkers I run into a few bottles of this stuff. This one was my parents last bottle, I got to drink the last few ounces over Christmas.

Color: Motor Oil

Nose:  Strong brown sugar, vanilla, ginger, raisins

Taste: Brown sugar, sherry, vanilla, plum

Finish: Sweet and buttery toffee

Conclusion: I've drank a lot of this stuff over the last few years and now that the free supply is drying up I am faced with the question, would I pay full retail for a bottle of this? And the answer is yes as I have grown quite fond of it and will miss it otherwise, but the days of drinking 250ml of this a night are sadly over.

Rating: 91



The scene: a hotel bar in Vietnam while traveling with some family. My uncle and I both want a Scotch and this is the only single malt they have. Makes it a good time to tick this one off my list. 

Speyside, 40%. I?ve heard it?s uncolored but I don?t know for sure. 

Nose: Fairly typical sherry, dried fruit (mostly raisins), spices like cloves and allspice

Palate: Similar to the nose with more sherry flavor, nuts, fruit cake, the spice is now more toward cinnamon. Not too sweet, nice fruit. 

Finish: Not overly tannic but short. It?s got a little wood, spices, and some sweetness to offset the wood. 

Conclusion: Not bad. Not fantastic but a perfectly decent sherried Scotch. Pleasant and drinkable, with nothing especially challenging or off-putting. Of Macallan?s age-stated lineup, I?ve also had the 15, 18, and 21 and this is the only one I feel that approaches being a reasonable value for what you get.    

Buy a bottle? I?d think about it. I like it better than Glenfarclas 12. At $55-60, it?s a little cheaper than Aberlour 12 unfiltered and right in the neighborhood of GlenDronach 12. So it?s priced decently, which is a lot more than you can say for the 18. If I wanted an entry-level sherried malt, I might pick it up.  

82/100



Are you in Vietnam now?

I've found Scotch to be pretty overpriced at bars here.



If you ask non-whisky drinkers to name one Scotch, I'm pretty sure a good majority of them will name this. It has huge name recognition, has a sorta fancy looking bottle, and is very very widely available everywhere (I think) used to be very widely available. Sadly this has gone the way of the NAS route as they've switched to the NAS "color" series (Sienna/Amber/Ruby/etc.). This was one of the first bottles of Scotch I got when I was getting into whiskies in general as I saw it pretty much everywhere and it was somewhat reasonably priced.

Macallan 12 / 43% ABV

Neat in a glencairn

Region: Highland

Chill-Filtration: YES

Nose - Sherry is definitely present on the nose, floral honey, lightly toasted oats, lightly tanned leather, cinnamon raisins, fresh hay, prunes.

Taste - Dark dried cherries, prunes, raisins steeped in a red wine with cinnamon and nutmeg, lightly toasted oats that have been made into an oatmeal, light oak bitterness.

Finish - Slight herbal bitterness that's actually quite pleasant, light bitterness like if you bit into the seed of a prune.

88/100

Purchased: May of 2015 / 750mL / ~$55 USD (after WA state taxes of 20.5% + $3.77/liter)

This is a decent Scotch, heavy sherry flavors that are mixed with typical unpeated single malt whisky flavors of toasted cereals and hints of sweet hay. It's not overly complex, but the sherry finish adds a nice fruity note to a very inoffensive whisky. I can see why it's so popular because it's very reasonably priced and I can see it having mass market appeal.



I'm really surprised to hear that this is hard to find for some people. It's my #1 go-to, and haven't had any issue finding it in several places I've lived or travels. For sure where I'm at now in NC, it's easy to find. 

With that said, I'd say your mid-$50 range is a damn good price for it. I'd seen high-$50 last time I was back up in NJ. Typically low-to-mid $60 here in NC. Seen it as high as I think $70 in SC.



Tasting notes:

Appearance: Amber+1

Nose [8/10]: Burnt sugar and creme brulee, background floral note, leather, brown sugar.

Taste [53/60]: Sweet burnt sugar and fairly fruity with pears and apples. With water, more dark fruits and sherry appear.

Finish [25/30]: Pepper and ginger spice with mild citrus. Not very long.

Total: 86/100

This whisky reminds me a lot of Glenfarclas. It has the same creme brulee sweet note to it, which is indicative of direct fired stills. It is slightly weaker than Glenfarclas, especially in the finish. Overall, a nice dram, albeit overpriced IMO. I would not pay more for Macallan than Glenfarclas.



Submission added to database (but not yet archived in the official Whisky Review Archive, please do so manually).

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



I realized that while this is a staple in my liquor cabinet, I've never actually reviewed it.  Aged for 12 years in sherry oak casks and bottled at 43% ABV.  No artificial coloring.

?

Nose:  Sweet dried fruits.  Oak and spice.

Palate:  Medium round mouthfeel.  Typical sherry profile though fairly light.  Dried fruits, nuts, caramel, and vanilla.

Finish:  Medium finish.  Vanilla, wood, almonds, spice, and some dried fruit.  A bit bitter and astringent after awhile.

Score: 84/100

?

There isn't much I can add to the slew of reviews of Macallan 12.  Its very good, but its nowhere near as good as the Macallan 18.  It is affordable however (about $45 around here) and the 18 year is not.  So as long as the price remains reasonable, I'll keep a bottle around.  I enjoy it, and some of my friends who are less into Scotch really, really enjoy it.  And I'd rather pour them this then something weird and expensive that they will like less anyway.

?

/u/review_bot 'Macallan'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Macallan:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



Let?s see if this is further evidence of Macallan?s continued decline. Thanks to /u/Atlas0823 for the samples.

Nose 

2015 - Red berries, raisins, a good amount of baking spice (cinnamon especially, but ginger, nutmeg and allspice as well), a somewhat aggressive black pepper note, a little dark chocolate in the background. Becomes sweeter, more like raspberry jam and less spice forward, with some breathing. Pretty nice sherried nose, especially for what?s more or less an entry level 12 yr.

1990?s - Whoa, this is nice. Much ?darker? smelling than the current stuff...seems much older than the age statement would indicate. I?m getting raisins, coffee with a lot of cream in it (or the Vietnamese coffee again?), tobacco, clove, nutmeg, leather, and allspice.  We seem to be headed back to ?Rolls Royce of Single Malts? territory here.

Palate 

2015 - Sweet and fruity to start - the red berries and raisins I mentioned earlier are here, along with a bit of toffee -  with some baking spice, dark chocolate and black pepper on the development. Kind of light-bodied - this is trying to be ?smooth?, but this is one meant to have some mass appeal, so it?s to be expected in my mind. Still flavorful though.

1990?s - Phenomenal. Again, seems older than the age statement would indicate. I?m getting raisins, red fruit, dark chocolate, Vietnamese Coffee (I love that I keep getting this now), oak, tobacco, nutmeg, and allspice. Gentle, somewhat light feel to it, but this texture is something else (ethereal maybe?). Sorry I can?t describe it well, but it?s cool.

Finish 

2015 - Baking spices and black pepper amplify here, as does the red fruit note, which becomes slightly tangy and a bit like raspberry jam here, before becoming slightly tannic. Good length given the proof.

1990?s - Dark and milk chocolate, tobacco, coffee, and oak, with dark dried fruit, red berries, with some mild baking spice and a hint of black pepper in the background. Lingers a while.

The current 12 year Sherry Macallan does a pretty nice job at what it sets out to do - i.e., a reasonably priced (I?m reviewing Macallan?), tasty sherried offering that should have a lot of mass appeal. It?s not going to wow me the way many other sherry bombs would, but for $60 I?d consider picking one up again.

The 1990?s stuff is on another level. Holy shit. This isn?t even one of the more sought after Macallan?s, but I can understand why the Malt Madness guy (Johannes v/d Heuvel - basically the first Scotch blogger) raved about Macallan, and why he?s been so pissed at them for the last 10-12 years. Macallan?s appeal kind of makes sense to me now, though they?re clearly coasting on their reputation these days. All that said...I have to think there?s older stuff in the old 12 yo, one of the benefits of Scotch being not so popular back then, and we?re a long ways these days from seeing older stuff being batched in with younger whisky again.

2015 - 86/100

1990?s - 93/100



I'd say I had similar notes when I compared these two

Post yo' notes, bro



So I'd say this is very accurate, and I've been drinking Mac 12 since 1996 (it's where I started). There is some old bottle effect at work, but the difference in casks and the quality of the sherry they were seasoned with is where most of the difference comes from. Today, the better casks seasoned with real aged sherry (versus the purpose made stuff destined for a vinegar bottle) is reserved for the 18 and other higher priced expressions (and this isn't unique to Macallan, other distilleries have the same engineered cask quality to price ratio).

It's interesting to note that back in the mid 90's the Mac 12  might have had a little older juice in the vatting, but not that much (I read an article somewhere about how jealous the Macallan blenders were that Highland Park, at the time, was able to include more older casks in their vattings), it was simply the factors above that gave it most of that punch and depth that's disappeared. I might add, the Mac 15 was even better (ridiculously good).

That said, the 12 is still a good sherried malt that for over a decade has remained pretty consistent, it's just not what it was back in the 90's. Then again the current Glenfarclas 12 isn't either (it's had a brutal drop off in the last two years, IMHO) nor is the GlenDronach 12 what it was 3 years ago (though it's still the best sherried 12 on the market). Unfortunately demand has taken it's toll.



Yes, Macallan bottlings of the 90's were the high point. They were smaller, the industry was still coming out of a brutal slump and they had a lot of good stuff racked and aging from the late 70's and early 80's. But a lot of what they put on the shelf in the 90s was done so to build a brand. It was better than it needed to be and it was never going to stay that way. GlenDronach is going through a similar cycle right now. There is no way the Glendro 12 was going to continue using old pre-mothball stocks, or that the 15, when it returns, will be anything like the 20 year-old stuff they were selling. It will still be good, and their new owners will be happy, but it won't be (and already isn't) the same.

However, there is another annoying subtext that rattles around with us whisky hobbyists, and that is the "back in my day" bullshit. Look, most dudes with older stuff like to think of that stuff as being special and better. Not because it necessary was (or wasn't), but because it means they have something special (or experienced something special) that you didn't (Woodstock syndrome). 

When it comes to Macallan, this has reached ridiculous levels when combined with evil Edrington assumptions (most don't even know that Edrington is a non-profit feeder for a charity trust). People act like the guys at Macallan are committing fraud for not making the same quality product they made years ago or charging the money they do. They cast aspersions regarding the tastes and fiscal prudence of those of us who still like Macallan.

The stills are the same size, they still use the same small cut (in fact the underlying malt profile is hasn't changed much, which is why I still like it), yes the ratio of Golden Promise has decreased from 100% since stuff laid down in the late 70's, but hell, they didn't have Golden Promise before 67 since it was a bloody mutant strain created using gamma rays (yup, nothing traditional about a genetically engineered barley).

TL;DR: it was awesome back in the day, the entry age statement expressions are still good (and reasonably priced), they charge to much for their better stuff and no, I don't think they are actively "cutting corners", it's just the nature of their company and the industry has changed. In short, this review got it pretty much exactly right.



Edrington is a non-profit feeder for a charity trust

Source? I have to think they make some kind of charitable donations as most companies do, but I've read a lot of articles about a lot of whisky from a lot of publications and have never seen that.

I don't think they are actively "cutting corners"

Given the proliferation of NAS stuff, you could argue they are. You're right, the nature of the industry has changed for a number of reasons, and maybe releasing stuff as NAS is something I would define as cutting corners that you wouldn't, but to me it's nothing more than a shortcut to get whisky out the door at lower cost.

Edited for spelling.



Wikipedia: "The Robertson Trust bears the family name of the Robertson sisters (Elspeth, Agnes and Ethel) who had inherited the Scotch whisky interests founded and developed by their grandfather and father. Keen to ensure the independence of the company, the welfare of its employees and to continue their tradition of supporting good causes in Scotland, in 1961 the sisters created The Edrington Group (named after a farm near their home in the Scottish Borders) to hold their interests and established The Robertson Trust (registered Scottish charity SC002970),[1] a charitable trust which owns all voting shares in the company. The Robertson Trust is Scotland's largest independent grant-making charitable Trust, and is funded by the dividend income of its shares in Edrington."

In short, Edrington is effectively owned by a Charitable Trust. 

As for your NAS comment, yes I suppose that could be described as the ultimate form of cutting corners in the whisky business. As someone who hates all the marketing fluff around NAS "age doesn't matter" nonsense, it is hard to justify Macallan's increasing dependence on NAS products except to say that I believe it's a simple operational necessity for them (and many other distilleries). Demand has greatly outstripped their racked supply of available casks and to preserve age statements in critical markets, they had to discontinue them in others. Long-term, I don't think it's a permanent situation, eventually they will start phasing core age statements back into the suspended markets as production to bottling lag time elapses.

So I'll concede that it's corner cutting, but it's industry wide, with whole well regarded distilleries operating entirely in NAS mode. I don't think Macallan is cynically trying to get-one-over on the public, it's just operational necessity: you don't shrink your business and you don't ever give up shelf-space in the beverage business.



increasing dependence on NAS products except to say that I believe it's a simple operational necessity

Yeah, that's one way to address it. The other being to let availability decline, i.e. what happens with Weller 12 and the like. There has to be less money in it for the parent company to go the "less availability" route, but honestly, it's what I'd prefer.



Yes, but Weller 12 (like the Pappy line) is an expression of Buffalo Trace, which itself is a sub of Sazerac (which, like Edrington, is privately held).

If we want to make the analogy, Pappy's equivalent at Macallan would be their 18 and up and, as it so happens, constrained production is exactly why they've priced it so high in the markets where they haven't pulled supply altogether. If we were to sit in a management meeting at Sazerac, you'd find many of the same sorts of challenges and decisions being debated at Edrington. You'd also find a few differences, such as Macallan and Highland Park having to deal even longer lead-time issues MUCH higher production costs and significant complexities around cooperage supply-chain that the bourbon business doesn't face.

By the way, you'll find no shortage of people complaining that Pappy was much better when it had real old Stitzel juice in it and that Weller was better in the old days. 



It's a day for then and now reviews!

Great stuff. I have also had an old Macallan and a new once, side by side, and it's absolutely true they've really changed things up, not for the better. Kind of sad, but it lets you know why so many people were so big on the stuff.



Well, some of us collect (hoard) bottles of stuff we know we'll want again (e.g. specific bottling batches we liked, soon to disappear expressions, etc.). I don't have any really cool super rare or expensive stuff (except for my Yoichi collection which, is pure luck that it's now worth a bunch) but I have a modest collection of Macallan regular expressions going back as far as 99 (the 15 being my oldest chronologically, though I didn't really start collecting until 03 - I have sealed examples of the 12 from 04 through 16, though some are 50ml I keep around just to "spot check" how the 12 is doing compared to 5 or 10 years earlier). I also have a few bottles of the 18 from when it wasn't absurdly overpriced.

While I haven't gone this route, you can find bottles of 90's era Mac 12 and 15 both through auction sites and occasionally (at silly prices) on MoM and Whisky Exchange. If your going to spend your money, get the 15, it was, IMHO, their best regular offering in the middle and late 90's.



Off the beaten path.

/u/dlofx found an 83 and 85 distilled Mac 18's for us a year and a half ago...I traded mine, but he still has an 85.