So today my bottle of Macallan Fine Oak 12 arrived and today I was in the mood to open this nice whisky. A few weeks ago I did a distillery visit to Macallan (the tour is really good and insightful) and was able to taste the Macallan 12 Sherry oak and Fine oak, the 15 year old fine oak and the Amber of the new NAS series, so I basically already knew what to expect. After hearing that the NAS Series will replace most of the Fine oak and Sherry expressions I knew I had to get a bottle of this, because I really enjoyed the Fine Oak 12, but I don?t really liked the Amber (maybe Sienna and Ruby are better though).

Macallan Fine Oak 12, ABV 40%, Natural Colour, triple cask matured in American oak casks seasoned with Olorosso Sherry, European Oak casks seasoned with Olorosso Sherry and American oak casks seasoned with Bourbon

Price: 55?

Colour - straw yellow, golden

Nose - The Nose is quite sweet and fruity, you can definitely smell some fresh fruits such as apples and honey melons, maybe also some pears. Honey sweetness and vanilla notes are also present as well as some floral notes.

Palate ? The first thing I noticed was the really nice mouthfeel, due to the small stills, Macallan produces a quite oily spirit, which I really like. At first the whisky tastes quite sweet, honey sweetness and vanilla are present but also some fruity notes, such as apple and melon and even some coconut. The taste gets spicier over time and the light bitterness of the oak becomes more present.

Finish ? the Finish is medium long and also really sweet and fruity, but instead of fresh fruits, you can taste more dried fruits and some citrus fruits, such as sultanas, dried figs and grapefruit. The finish is also a bit oaky, the oaky notes become more present over times as the fruity notes fade away.

Overall I really enjoyed this whisky it is really sweet and fruity and has also a nice balance of oaky, spicy and sweeter flavours. However I wouldn?t recommend this to anyone who is not a big fan of sweet whiskies, because it is really sweet. In comparison to the 12 year old Sherry oak it is bit softer, probably because of the use of American oak barrels, but still really enjoyable. As a rating I would give it 87/100.



The Macallan 12 years old fine oak

What better to plan a road trip from Inverness to Aberdeen than with a glass of this Speyside?

Region: Speyside.

ABV: 40%

Like in my previous review (Laphroaig 10 year old) I have the same feeling about the alcohol percentage, it'll improve so much at 46% or higher strength, mainly because it will be easier for me to understand all its different flavours. Never mind, all whisky producers know it (but they have to keep up with production), so this is the last time I say so :(

Colour: A precious old gold with no caramel added.

Nose: Fig blast and after some alcohol notes, and then (ohhh yes!!!) the oak, mostly fresh wood and some hard sweet as well (toasted caramel). 

My father is a BBQ enthusiast, and I am sure he could tell me the name of each wood I am smelling right now.

Taste: Extremely light!!! dry, woody (not as much as), oak, some dried fruits, no alcohol impact.

Finish: Warm, the alcohol comes now, older oak, dried fruits, dried figs (older and more concentrated, but still light). 

Price: 45? the bottle.

71/100 - Quite a light and good dram.

I like this whisky because it is different to the other stuff I normally have (Ardbeg, A'bunadh, Talisker...), I think I will forget for a while about Peat and Sherry, and focus on these not so obvious Whiskies, setting my eyes in Glenmorangie.



Hi again. Seems to be quite a few Macallan notes up after the blackout, so what the hey. Truthfully, I bought this after searching around an entire Scottish town looking for a Macallan 12 sherry cask for the community review. Finding none anywhere I gave up and got the closest thing I could fine, the Macallan 12 Fine Oak. I'll get round to the sherry cask eventually, for now perhaps this will provide a nice counterpoint to all those who participated in the 2nd community review? 

The Macallan 12 Year Old - Fine Oak, Speyside single malt, ABV 40%, likely chill-filtered, triple cask matured

Colour: Clear, almost chartreuse in some light, sunshine gold

Nose: Muted fruit notes, dusty pear notes becoming more marzipan, white grapes, chlorophyll and green plants, worn fabric smell like rope

Palate: Sweet, very thin mouthfeel, medium body, polished oak wood, ever-so slight banana in the background, sultanas, with air freshly cut grass, fades to an almost pine taste  

Finish: Extraordinarily crisp and clean finish, almost a minty freshness mouthfeel, fading quickly to a sweet faint milk chocolate and light burn.

This was a light whisky with a big fresh characteristic, very crisp and sharp without being too dry. The nose was more complex than first let on and really benefited from being left to aerate. The oak flavours shone through an almost acidic lime sweetness throughout and the finish was quite unlike anything I'd experienced. I'm not sure if this is necessarily desirable as I prefer my long, lingering, flavoursome finishes while this came to a halt very quickly, leaving you feeling like you'd just rinsed your mouth out with mouthwash! A light, refreshing, oaky dram for the early evening but nothing leaving you reeling.

60/100, would buy again



60/100, would buy again

?_?

tough grader or left out the word 'not'?



?_?

Arithmetic tells me 3/5 = 60/100.

Just kidding; I know what you mean.



Review #31 - Macallan 12 Fine Oak

Bar in Iceland - last night - saw this in a bar and thought ?why not?

?

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

?

Nose: light sherry, vanilla, bit of cinnamon and some oak (go figure) digestive biscuits, chocolate syrup

Taste: very light on the palate, oaky, vanilla-cherry cough syrup. Chocolate syrup

Finish: short, drying, oak and vague vanilla and artificial sweetness. Chocolate syrup

Conclusion: nothing special and quite the let down. The 15 fine oak was better. All in all this is pretty watery and there is much better out there.

Score

76/100



Thanks for the review!

I had a small pour of the 10 year and didn't even finish it...very disappointing. 



Thanks for reading!

I seriously did consider not finishing this...

I don't think there is anything at Macallan being released right now (In Canada and Europe) that any one is happy with



Thanks for reading!

I've had the 15 and the 12 Fine Oak at this point and I now wonder why I even bother with Macallan.  I didn't really get into scotch until far after Macallan's decline and part of me wants to experience what everyone used to say about them.



I was able to get a bottle of the 12 but have yet to open it.  I do really want to open this though as every endorsement for it makes me look forward to it more.  I had a dram of a more recent 18 at a bar and it was good but not mind blowing (probably a bit over-hyped in my own mind; but otherwise a nose to die for).  The Fine Oak line does just seem odd - why bother putting out something sub-standard.

I say this everytime haha but what Macallan has done to itself is such a shame



I have no reason to doubt that it isn't them running out of sherry aged stock. Macallan is hugely popular which means I'm sure they foresaw inventory shortages or PX/Olo cask shortages or prices rose which prompted them to find cheaper alternatives. With the bourbon boom, I would bet that oak is far cheaper than sherry barrels. 

So in essence, what the market has done to Macallan is a shame. They're doing great and selling tons of whiskey which I think is likely deemed as a success to them. 

To me, the 12 is a classic. People love to hate on it but I really enjoy it. Pop that sucker open and enjoy!



Interesting.  There does seem to be real quality with the older stuff but the Fine Oak range doesn't seem to get the same treatment.  I have read that the sherry casks Macallan now use held the equivalent of cooking sherry for the least amount of time possible

Yea fair enough - do you like any of their NAS stuff?

Oh will do haha!



Do you expect the same old, age stated sherry aged quality when Macallan is putting the fine oak new make in ex-bourbon barrels for only 3 years minimum? I wouldn't. 

I don't like any of their nas stuff but I haven't tried a whole lot of it. I stick to the 12 and the 18 if I'm out and its at a bar at an OK price. higher than the price of the 12 and i"m looking at glendronach and glenfarclas' direction. 



No for sure not expecting that in terms of quality sherry aging but there does overall seem to be a drop in the quality of the spirit. Maybe that's just a bias of mine

Hard to beat a glendronach at the moment for quality Sherry aging!



Since both have been discontinued, I thought it might be worth reviewing these staples from one of the most renowned Scotch whisky producers. Thanks to Swinse for the sample of the 12.

Macallan 10 Sherry Oak. Speyside single malt, aged 10 years in sherry casks, and bottled at 40% ABV. Paid $70 for 700mL.

Nose: Bold sherry style (surprise surprise). Vanilla custard, sultanas, cranberries, marmalade, and a spicy pepper element. Some bright floral notes in the background, reminiscent of Cognac.

Palate: Velvety texture, smooth and syrupy. Body is on the lighter side of medium, with disappointingly less complexity than on the nose. Dried apricots and cranberries.

Finish: Medium length with a lot of wood notes, although this time moving away from the traditional oak into more of a furniture wood quality (rosewood and cedar). Continuation of the Cognac-like floral notes.

The 10 Sherry Oak be a good beginner introduction to the sherry style, due to the simplicity, and the clear representation of the basic flavour profile that sherry casks impart on Scotch. Experienced Scotch drinkers, however, may be disappointed in how such a traditionally strong style comes out a little flat. The dark flavours of sherried whisky seem a little redundant at such a low proof.

79/100

Macallan 12 Fine Oak. Speyside single malt, aged 12 years in a combination of American Oak ex-bourbon casks, and European and American oak ex-sherry casks. Bottled at 40% ABV. Local bottle price: $85 for 700mL.

Nose: Light, fresh, and subtle. Soft honey, green apples, dry wood spice. Almost zero evidence of sherry maturation, leading me to believe this spent significantly more time in the bourbon casks.

Palate: Quite spicy for 40%. Juicy pears, more honey and apples, with a hint of vanilla essence. Medium body, leaning slightly towards full.

Finish: More spicy oak at the start, before being subdued by a sweet, malty vanilla. The honey note develops into a richer, fuller character than was on the nose or palate. Just a hint of the sherry tannins on the tail. Medium length.

Worlds apart from the SO10. The nose leaves a lot to be desired, but on the palate and finish, it shows a certain sophistication and balance that the 10 was lacking. Would work well as a refreshing summer dram, or an everyday or session Scotch.

81/100



I'm bummed these are both discontinued.  I've just recently moved from The Balvenie to Macallan as my favorite and was looking to explore these two flavors.

Thanks for the review!



Macallan Fine Oak 12, 40% ABV

I can?t remember who I got this sample from, sorry!

Nose: Barley sugar. Potpourri. Vanilla essence. Canned pears. Toffee apple. Ripe berries.

Taste: Watery and thin. Soft grains. Marmalade and dried apricot.. Diluted reconstituted orange and mango juice. Honey and  wheatgrass shot from the health food store. Dry oaky spices and vanillin.

Finish: Solventy ethanol. Bitter graininess. Luckily the finish is quite short.

Nose is nice. Watery and bland on the palate. The finish ruins it. 

67/100

Review 181



I can?t remember who I got this sample from, sorry!

Wasn't me! I had a bottle open for a few weeks at some point this year, but as I rate this about as highly as you do, I wouldn't bother sending it.



Hi Maltmates! Besides sherry cask matured whiskies Macallan also has a range called Fine Oak consisting of malts matured in both bourbon and sherry casks, and they go like this:

The Macallan 10 Fine Oak

Speyside, 40%

color: pale gold

nose: floral, oak, apple peals, hints of vanilla

taste: creamy, sweet malt, fresh fruits, oak

finish: mild, lingers

Although it is only ten years old, the oak is already quite prominent. Apart from that rather mild and smooth like a Lowland whisky.

84/100

The Macallan 12 Fine Oak

Speyside, 40%

color: gamboge

nose: floral, cut grass, vanilla, malt, toffee, caramel, fresh fruits

taste: oak, spices, orange cake, sweet malt, tiny hint of smoke, butter, apricots, raisins

finish: middle long, oak, coconut, gets sweeter and sweeter

Very palatable malt and nice price. It's still around where I'm at so I'm probably gonna grab another one because I'm not excited of the new NAS collection of Macallan.

88/100

The Macallan 15 Fine Oak

Speyside, 43%

color: gold

nose: malted milk, floral, butter, melon drops, hints of apricots and vanilla

taste: fruity sweet, ginger, orange biscuits with chocolate icing, caramel, raisins, malt

finish: spicy, oak, lingers

Very rich and well balanced. The older the more the sherry comes through. The higher ABV works well, but I wouldn't complain if it had 46%.

91/100

I like the Fine Oak range, and if you have access to these I would highly recommend you to try at least one of them rather than the newer fancy but ridiculously overpriced NAS malts from Macallan (but I don't want to go down that road again). Too bad I didn't get the 18 yo Fine Oak when it was still affordable. Anyone here to tell how it compares to the younger ones?



was at a buddy's place for lunch on the weekend and he pulled out this bottle after to give me a try. I decided to jot down a couple of quick notes to start building a multi-review of Macallans. 

Appearance: standard e150. no legs in the rock glass.

Nose: sweet, oaky, fruity, floral. Didn't get a ton of specific fruit from it. 

Taste: peaches, apples, oaky vanilla. Sweet and floral. Rather simple. 

Finish: short, dry, oaky.

Score: 80/100

I would take this over the Amber, but wasn't super impressed by it. It's a simple dram and was a nice apertif, but wouldn?t be one I'd sit down with for an hour. Plus at $64 even at Duty Free, it's a little pricey for what you get.  Would benefit from being bottled at a higher ABV. 

I received this sample in a swap with /u/Slackerdude a while back and just noticed now that I hadn't cracked it yet. Since I have another Macallan review waiting for a partner to be posted with, figured I'd give this a shot while I wait for the Wild Card game to start. 

Appearance: light gold-orange. Probably coloured.

Nose: when I first poured it I could smell apples and pears from 1.5ft away. Sticking my nose in the glass gives more of that, and a bunch of oaky vanilla. Clean crisp.

Taste: Definitely tastes like a Macallan. Lots of fruit and floral notes. Initially has a lot more bite to it than I would have imagined so I let it sit for 15-20 mins and then tried again. Some more pear, lots of oaky vanilla, little bit of spiciness. Still hotter than it should be at 40%. very alcohol-forward. 

Finish: fruity and short.

Score: 79/100

I didn't taste them head to head but my gut reaction on this is it's actually worse than the Select Oak NAS. Not a fan as it's quite simple and has too much ethanol on the palate. Nose had more promise, but it just didn't deliver. 

not a huge Macallan fan... i find they're just a little too simple. Cask Strength Sherry was nice, but the rest have been meh

Macallan Sherry Cask Strength

Macallan Amber

Speyside Review #34. Avg Score: 82.6

Scotch Review #111. Avg Score: 82.7

Whisky Network Review #166. Avg Score: 81.9



not a huge Macallan fan... i find they're just a little too simple. Cask Strength Sherry was nice, but the rest have been meh

You just don't understand smoothness ya pleb.



Hello again everyone,

Back again today with some more of my adventure.

First thing I did today was go to a tour at Speyside Cooperage which was really interesting. You don't really get much for your ?3.50 (15 min video then a viewing gallery into the Cooperage) but it was pretty mesmerising to see the coopers at work. 

After that I just about had time for a tour at Glen Grant. 45 mins, ?5 and you get to taste the Major's Reserve and the 10yo. Since I was driving I took some away in a sample bottle and tried later. Guide seemed a little nervous and might have been new.

?

Glen Grant 40% (2016 packaging)

Colour: Gold

Body: Light

Nose: Fragrant, fruity and perfumed. Melon and banana, heady women's perfume, orange blossom, orange peel, lemon.

Taste: Soft. Sweet and perfumed, flowers, orange blossom, orange peel, fragrant oak, lemon pith, some chocolate into the finish.

Finish: Medium length. Chocolate and oak.

Notes: Nice nose, lackluster finish.

67/100

?

Next up was Macallan, which I was expecting big things from. Horst Leuning suggested it as his distillery to visit as a connoisseur. 1 hour, 30 mins, ?10 and 4 tasters (all pretty small but some rarer stuff too). Plus all four tasters I hadn't tried before. Very professional and friendly guide who knew a lot about just about everything.

?

Macallan 12 Fine Oak 40%

Colour: Gold

Body: Medium

Nose: Aromatic. Very malty and oily. Nutty, Sherry, honey, honeysuckle, little floral notes- Heather, milk chocolate. 

Taste: Oily, nutty, very malty, Sherry and vanilla, lots of honey, more oily malt, Macademia nut.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Nutty and then oily and cloying.

71/100

?

Macallan Amber 40%

Colour: Light Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Malty and oily, Sherry, wood spice, nutty, oily nuts, fresh barley, raisin, biscuit.

Taste: Very soft arrival, raisin, biscuit, malt, barley, spices building up, then some harsh oak and tannins, but recedes into the finish.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Oily malt and oaky spices.

69/100

?

Macallan 12 Sherry 40%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Lovely. Heavy and fat. Sherry, nuts, oily, malt, earthiness, raisin, dark chocolate.

Taste: Soft, Sherry, nutty, oily, oily malt, barley, raisin, honey, dark chocolate, good quality coffee.

Finish: Medium length. Good quality dark chocolate and great coffee.

Notes: Great stuff. Can't believe this was discontinued in most markets.

73/100

?

Macallan 18 Fine Oak 43%

Colour: Dark Gold

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Lovely, very perfumed, perfume, men's cologne, aromatic spice, cinnamon bark, honeysuckle, orange blossom, orange peel, orange juice.

Taste: Soft arrival, lots of honey, honeysuckle, floral, perfumed, manly cologne, musk, old oak, sandalwood, some tannins, Sherry, toffee, chocolate and dark coffee.

Finish: Medium/Long length. Toffee, honey and spiced oak.

Notes: I didn't know they did this. Thought the 21yo was the next step up from the 15 fine oak.

78/100

?

Another great day, hopefully more tomorrow. I think Glenfarclas and Glendronach.



Reviews #155-#159

Network Average: 74.5

Best Score: 91

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



We were just there a week ago during torrential downpours and the guy gave us some 16 to try also. Was quite good, but hard to stand against the ten. 

Did you try to get into Balvenie? It blows all other tours out if the water, but VERY hard to get in. If you're solo, it might be easier. ?35 for about 3.5 hours and 5 tastings  (6 of you join warehouse 24 for free before) 

Sign with number



Thanks to /u/slackerdude for this sample!

Macallan. They sell a lot of whisky. So much so they have to drop the cask strength, drop the age statements, and are running out of juice. They are one of 4 of the whisky companies that accounts for the majority of sales in the Scotch boom.

And I'm not the biggest fan. Just because I'm not the biggest fan of their whisky, not due to some ancient blood oath or secret war. And I'm totally not in a fight club.

The Fine Oak line, for those of you who aren't in the know, is a triple casked whisky line with various age statements. And it's getting harder and harder to find in Ontario, as our market isn't big and our governments are kinda dumb (all of them, no specific party).

The three casks used are European ex-Sherry oak, American ex-Sherry oak, and American ex-bourbon oak. I was going to list out what each will give to a dram, however I realized that I'm quite tired. Suffice to say, from what I can remember, European oak gives more spice and fruit, American oak more mouthfeel and oak. Sherry gives red fruits and spice, and ex-Bourbon more vanilla.

Anyway, let's see how the Macallan Fine Oak 12 year tastes, versus the 10 year or the 15 year.

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Colour: 2.5Y 7/8

Nose: Honey, oak, strawberry, pepper, whipped cream, wheat, funk

Better nose than the 10 year. More to it. Not by much, granted, however I remember having trouble picking up anything off of the 10 year, and at least here there's some light notes.

Not as pungent as the 15 year. At all. And the flavours are simple in comparison.

Taste: Caramel, raspberry drink, lemon juice, oak

No real surprise on the taste. It's pretty consistent across each dram, which has it's ups and down. 

Better tasting then the 10 year, though still as simple.

Not nearly as complex as the 15 year. Doesn't hold a sulfur candle to it.

Finish: Butter, strawberry powder, ginger, sea air, cocoa

Interesting finish. I'm actually surprised. Yes the fake notes keep popping up in it, however I'm enjoying it as a summer dram. Not too long.

Much better finish than the 10 year. And you already know what I'll say compared to the 15 year (it's getting closer though)

Conclusion: Buy this over the 10 year Fine Oak, and if you have the extra cash and love Macallan, buy the 15 Fine Oak instead. Pretty simple really. This dram is light, tastes nice on a summer day in the sun, and doesn't confuse people too much. It's easy drinking while still being complex enough not to be useless.

I'd have it as a sipper. Probably wouldn't buy a bottle though.

76/100

Scotch review #317, Speyside review #90, Whisky Network Review #471

1001 Whiskies to taste before you die review #231

Other Macallan reviews:

*Macallan Fine Oak 10 year

*Macallan Fine Oak 15 year

*Macallan Fine Oak 17 year

*Macallan Fine Oak 21 year

*Macallan Gold

*Macallan Sherry Cask 12 year

*Macallan Sherry Cask 18 year

*Macallan Sherry Cask Strength

*Macallan Sienna



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.80   

Standard Deviation = 10.28

Skewness = -2.76312 

Kurtosis = 11.25643 

Median = 80

IQR = 9