Hello Scotchit,

Here is my 20th review (level up!). This one is another Macallan from their new line, the Macalland Gold. I got this bottle as a birthday present, so again the price paid is unknown, but a quick search tells me it retails for $65 here. Yes, Canadian taxation on liquor is ludicrous. 

For people interested in the taxation breakdown, it's $11.70 per L of absolute ethyl alcohol (i.e. 11.70 * 0.75L * 40%), plus 13% sales tax, plus a 12 cent bottle deposit. So of that $65 bottle, about $12 is some form of tax. This is why whenever Canadians list prices on bottles, you should only compare them with each other: they're certainly not a good comparison point across national borders.

With that out of the way, here's the review:

This is not a very complex scotch, but it is what I would term eminently approachable. It doesn't overload you with sherry, has no smoke or peat, and the taste is quick straightforward, if unimpressive. If I had to rank it (rather than rate it), I'd put it around a Glenfiddich 12, maybe a bit better. So in terms of a grade, let's say 65/100.



I thought they discontinued that a while back, to avoid confusion with the 12 yr sherry.

Depending where you are, age stated Macallan might be extinct, or extinct for versions younger than 18 (can't remember which).



I managed to get a chance to try the new line of Macallan last night and had the presence of mind to scrawl some notes down. I hadn't had a Macallan before this, so I had no reference point for how the new stuff compares to the old. 

All of the 1824 series uses Oloroso sherry casks exclusively in the aging process.

Macallan Gold

40% ABV

Colour: Pale gold

Nose: Citrus fruit. Lemons and oranges. Almost an agave, tequila-like smell to it. Honey and flowers. Slight raisins.

Palate: Citrus, honey, cereal grain. Medicine and sugar. 

Finish: Medicine on the tongue, slighty soapiness at first. Peppery on tongue which develops into a ginger taste. 

This is alright. Probably somewhat on par with the Singleton of Glendullan. It isn't offensive (Aside from that strange tequila smell, which reminds me of Glen Parker) but lacks real depth. 

68/100

Macallan Amber

40% ABV

Colour: Petrol

Nose: Sherry, stewed fruit, caramel. A mild smokiness? Pears, spiced raisins. Nice. 

Palate: Citrus peel and sherry. Salt and flowers, with peppery, cinnamon raisins. 

Finish: Peppery. Medium strength, but pipes a sherry pepper mix up your nose. Tingles the tongue. Warming. Nice length to it; lingers. 

Prefer this one to the Gold, for sure. It's inoffensive as well, but you see more of the sherry influence in this one. Nothing really surprising in it, but it holds up well.

72/100

Macallan Sienna

43% ABV

Colour: Amber / dark sawdust.

Nose: Salt and sherry. Citrus. Toffee. Fudge. Spiced fruit. Toasted oak. Nice. 

Palate: Salty kick right off the bat. Sherry and citrus. Spiced fruit. Warm and oily mouthfeel. Apple peel. Chocolate. Better with a splash of water to help the subtler flavours come out. Really nice. Everything works together quite well. 

Finish: Warming and a sharp peppery bite at first, but smooths out really quickly. Surprisingly smooth, actually. Oily residue slips about your mouth and keeps a sherry taste lingering quite some time. Really nice. 

Nicer with water, but this is miles above the gold and amber.

87/100

Macallan Ruby

43% ABV

Colour: Deep amber. Chestnut. Macallan CS -1.

Nose: Chocolate. Sherry. Stewed red fruit. Soft honey. Oak. Spice. Cinnamon and ginger. Rum raisins. Fudge and caramel. There's a lot here; It seems every time I bring my nose back I smell something new. 

Palate: Sherry and spice. Ginger and floral notes compliment spiced plums. Peppery kick. Chocolate, fudge and raisins. Very nice flavours that work well together. Oily mouthfeel.

Finish: Sherry flows over my tongue. Sharp at first but mellows out. Good length to it and you can feel it continuously coating your mouth. Warming. Not as good as the finish on the CS or the Sienna, but still really nice. Simple, but long and pleasing. 

I definitely like this one the most. I don't think it's as good as the Macallan CS, which I tried later that same evening, but it's a pleasant dram. I loved the nose and palate.

90/100



Wow.  So did they say anything about how this line will get rolled out?  Is it completely replacing the current offerings?

Mac 12 is so much the whisky I have thought of as the prototypical "sherry bomb" that it will be weird to have that cornerstone being phased out.



While I do agree they're going to be replacing the whole line eventually, these four are replacing the standard offerings under 18 years. So the FO 10, 12, 15, 17 and Sherry 10, 12 won't be available.

Plus, what DustyWeasel said below. They're phasing it out in different markets first.



The Macallan Gold Highland 40% ABV - $75 CAD

My friend invited me over to watch some Stanley Cup final action tonight. After a beer, we indulged in some whiskey. This is tonight's offering.

Colour: Golden honey

Nose: Sweet honey and light vanilla coating an assortment of apples and grapes

Taste: Banana bread washed down with orange pekoe tea, White grape juice paired with ginger molasses and brown sugar

Finish: warm, somewhat acrid honey stays on the tongue

This is my friend's current every day drinker at the moment. Solidly gets the job done.

78/100



I was fortunate enough to make it to a free Macallan tasting session.  Cocktails and nibbles were served in advance and then we were given a wonderful Macallan propaganda presentation as we sipped.

All of these are NAS, Natural colour, aged in sherry oak.

Macallan Gold

Nose: Spirit, wood, sugar, sherry, orange, cereal, caramel, grain.  Actually delightful.

Palate: Young spirit, cardboard, sherry, lemon.

Finish: Lemon, Spray Cleaner.

VERY unimpressive.  Haven't tried many Macallan's but his is by far the worst.  Drinkable at 68/100.

Macallan Amber

Nose: Sherry, Raisins, Brown Sugar, Wood, Fruit.

Palate: Wood, sherry, cinnamon, toffee, ginger.  Cardboard again.

Finish: Spices, fall fruits.

A small step above the gold at 70/100

Macallan Sienna 

Nose: MMMmm Sweet Sherry, sugar, richer, deeper more complex nose than the above two.  Starting to get a hint of the sherry I associate with Macallan.

Palate: Raisins, wood.  Complex.

Finish: Spices and Wine.

Most interesting and complex of the evening, but I still prefer the 12 Sherry significantly.

Score: 80/100

Macallan Ruby

Nose: Sweet, deep sherry.  Finally.

Palate: Rich, smooth, cinnamon, raisins.  Again, finally that sherry I like.

Finish: Lingering spices.  Not too long.

Supposedly aged between 18 and 25 years.

Score: 86/100

So what to say?  Ultimately an unimpressive range.  The Ruby, which runs close to $300 where I am, isn't much better than the old 12 Sherry.  The most interesting thing was the strong wood taste in each of the expressions.  Quite a nice characteristic in fact.  But all of these are a far cry from, say, the Cask Strength we know and love.  

I don't know Macallan? 



Ultimately an unimpressive range

Pretty much sums it up. There are other distilleries offering far better for far less compared to this range.



Toronto? I was there too! 

And no, Macallan says all their colour is natural. 



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  I wanted to personally get to the bottom of this one for you guys.  So that we can all know what's  going on here.  So I went on MasterofMalt and ordered the sample of Macallan Gold 80 proof. 
and here...we...go.

very disappointing. I would compare it to Auchentoshan Classic or Dalwhinnie.  very light and unflavorful.  What they've made here is something so weak and low proof that I'm losing respect for them now.  I wanted to reserve judgement on their new move to NAS Scotch, and now after trying it first hand, I can conclusively say, the Gold is crap. that is, in comparison to their Macallan 12 Sherry or Macallan Fine Oak 10.  it is weaksauce and not worth the $58 that I'm reading it will cost here.

I was debating picking up more Fine Oak and that huge bottle of Macallan 12 I see in the store and this has pushed me to seriously consider it.  

Macallan seems to be pretty mum about what they are doing and for good reason.  I wouldnt want to brag about this new line either.  There are reports that their quality barrels are in less supply and a bunch of them have been ruined by sulfur.  The only articles I find about their new line are all pretty much recycled from each other and there is no concrete information about the Sherry Cask Strengths future.  We may be looking at the beginning of the end for Macallan.  

66/100



This is disappointing. I was also trying to reserve judgement until I was able to try them. Change isn't necessarily bad, and giving me new whisky to try from a distillery I otherwise like isn't terrible.

I'm sure I'll still be stupid and buy a bottle just because I'm curious. Then I can join the bitch fest.



I trust you wont let some snobs sway your opinions while youre there.  "oh we only use the best bullshit and we stopped using ages because no one liked our current line and so and so"

what about the CS for the love of all that is holey!?



I didn't have much hope for this one, but my theory is that the Gold is Macallan's answer to all the casual Scotch drinkers who go to the store and say "Hey look, Macallan, Macallan's a good brand that I recognise, let's get one of those". And in my theory there would be less chance of this person who buys on brand name going for the higher NAS varieties like Sienna and Ruby (if they wanted a special Macallan to flaunt or for a special occasion, they'd probably just go for the 18, no?).

While the higher NAS varieties will be more expensive, hopefully they won't be too expensive as they will be in less demand by the casual crowd. The people who previously would have bought the 100% sherry 10 or 12 simply because of the label and the status will now go for the cheapest to make bourbon-matured variety.

It's a stretch but I hope I'm right. 

I also hope the Australian importers don't say "Meh, they wouldn't want anything more than Gold. Let's just get that."



Their old 12 year old sherry, before they changed the packaging to perfume boxes and introduced the fine oak series, was one of the best whisky's in the world and one of my favorites. The new series has never been to my liking, at least not as much as I enjoyed the old series, might be nostalgia. 

Luckly I'm still in possesion of an 18 year old 1983 Macallan, keeping that one closed for the foreseeable future.



personally i really dislike the Macallan 12 yr sherry, their 18yr old sherry is pretty nice (insanely priced, $160+ in Oregon).

The Arberlour 12 yr Cask Strength sherry is quite good though (if you are into sherry) and i believe it is under $50



Hi Scotchit! I've already reviewed the Amber and the Sienna. I know, I'm not a fan of the NAS trend either, but hey: At least Macallan doesn't add colorant (and yes, they do say so on the box) while naming their whiskies after colors. As against, Dalwhinnie Winter's Gold for example - wtf? But hey, what matters is what's in the bottle, right?

The Macallan Gold

Speyside, 40%

color: natural color

nose: malt, oranges, licorice, grass, honeycomb, hints of vanilla and leather

taste: oranges, hint of ginger, raisins, walnuts, Sherry, dried apples

finish: raisins, pepper, hint of cola

Malty nose. Rather light on the palate. Short finish. The nose is decent, the rest is weak. Just too light. Meh.

73/100

The Macallan Ruby

Speyside, 43%

color: natural color

nose: coke, plums, Sherry, raisins, blackberries, hint of solvent, caramel, ginger

taste: ginger, Sherry, cherry, raisins, strawberries, nuts, blood oranges

finish: mint, nuts, cherry, ginger

Well made and very drinkable, but not spectacular and quite pricy. More pleasant, less funky than the aged statement ones with more European Oak influence. Shame.

83/100



Macallan doesn't add colorant (and yes, they do say so on the box) 

Maybe they mean the BOX is no-color-added?



Be happy, that you don't know what they are and that you can still buy 10, 12, and 15 where you live :)

The US is one of the last places that still sells the age statements.    Here in Canada it's Gold, Amber, Sienna, Ruby etc..   I preferred 10 to Gold (I really like the Fine Oak series).

They did recently come out with double cask 12 which I like, but it's still not as good as the sherry cask 12 you buy in the US (which I load up on anytime I'm at a US Costco).



The Macallan is a brand of single malt most whisky aficionados are well acquainted with. Everyone knows that Macallan make good whisky, and everyone knows that their thing is sherry. The problem with everyone knowing this is that with the current whisky boom, demand for Macallan is through the roof.
I?m personally not a huge fan myself. I?ve always found their bottlings a little overpriced, not bad whisky in any way, but I can find whisky of the same caliber for a much lower price. Their clientele are an odd mix of the show-off collector types as well as the true whisky lovers, though they tend to focus their marketing on the former. But they
Anyways, possibly due to the immense demand, although nothing confirmed, Macallan replaced their two core bottlings, exclusively sherry matured 12 and 18 year old expressions, with a slightly expanded range of age stated expressions matured in a variety of cask types, named Fine Oak.
A while after that, they changed their core range again to the 1824 series. In this they had done away with the age statements altogether. Instead each expression was named after a progressively darker colour, namely Gold, Amber, Sienna and Ruby, probably indicating an increasing proportion of sherry matured whisky in its makeup.
I was curious about these whiskies as it?s a huge change for such an established brand like Macallan, however they?re still overpriced, so I just got myself a sample of each and had a go.

Macallan Gold

Aged 3 years *. 40% ABV. No colourant added.

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Light fruit, peaches, apricots, soft pear. Lemon curd. Wood shavings. Parmesan cheese. Slight soapy note.

? Palate: Feels quite thin. Bitter wood. Orange peel. Sultanas. Lemon zest. Acetone.

? Finish: Bitter. Acetone. Slightly salty. Not much here really.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: No

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 3/5

Fades too fast. The nose is decent, not complex but pleasant, but the palate is unbalanced and ends on a pretty nasty note with carries through into the finish, if one could call it that.

Macallan Amber

Aged 3 years *. 40% ABV. No colourant added.

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Yellow cherries. Marmalade. Toffee. Caramel pudding. Stewed pears. Pine. Slight sulphur and ethanol.

? Palate: Still thin feeling but more flavour here than the Gold. Jaffa cakes. Marmalade. Amaretto. Slightly nutty wood. 
A little bitter on the swallow, but in a good way.

? Finish: Short. Bitter wood. Orange peel. Cloves. Allspice.

Would I buy this: No
Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 3/5

Not bad this. It had quite a bit more flavour to it than the Gold, and was on the whole quite pleasant. It had quite a bit of bitterness and spiciness to it but in a refreshing kind of way.

Macallan Sienna

Aged 3 years *. 43% ABV. No colourant added.

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Raspberries. Charred fruits. Marmalade. Slight woodsmoke. Vanilla pods. Sticky toffee pudding. Milk chocolate. Sulphur.

? Palate: Fresh linen. Cloves. Vanilla essence. Cacao. Black cherries. Dried orange peel. Pickled ginger.

? Finish: Medium. Ginger. Woodspice. Honey. Plums.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 2/5

We?re starting to feel the sherry influence here. This had some good notes to it, but also some unbalanced bitter ones which I didn?t find very refreshingly pleasant like the Amber.

Macallan Ruby

Aged 3 years *. 43% ABV. No colourant added.

*for lack of age statement

? Nose: Dusty. Nutty wood. Sherry. Orange peels. Lilacs. Prunes. Very slight woodspice notes, need to work to notice them.

? Palate: Ginger. Bitter wood. Somewhat unpleasant soapy note, unbalanced sherry maybe. Very nutty sherry.

? Finish: Medium. Bitter. Nutty sherry. Raisins. Cloves. Pepper.

Would I buy this: No

Would I order this in a bar: No

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 1/5

This was a miss for me. This cost double the price of the expression one tier below and it?s not worth it. I found it hard to get any unique notes out of it, and some of the more dominant notes were quite unpleasant. The sherry character here was very pronounced, but I found it weird and unbalanced.

Well, that was a fun experiment. Unfortunately these expressions pale in comparison to the older age stated ones. I think they might even have been replaced by now, Macallan is churning out these NAS expressions at such a rate that it?s hard to keep up.
The Sienna and Amber were decent enough and drinkable, just nothing really unique that would make me want them over any other light, Highland/Speyside whisky, like Glengoyne for example.

Reviewed in my blog:
https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2017/05/13/the-macallan-1824-selection/

EDIT: Formatting



spreading false information

But it's all we know. By definition the youngest spirit in the vatting must be at least 3 years old. And that's it. Distilleries do not give an agestatement for a reason. Everything else is just gospel, hearsay or most likely false. But that doesn't make the spirit in the bottle better or worse.



Shane_il explains why he tags them as 3 years old, so that seems cool.

And besides, what is the basis of your guesses that "the average NAS is more around 6-8 with some hitting 8-12"?



No I'm not. I clearly state that the reason I'm making my statement is because they do not carry an age statement. Thus one can assume that they must be aged at least 3 years. It's the only assumption about the age one can actually make.

If you follow my reviews you might notice that when there is a press release or some confirmation of the age of an NAS  expression I will say so next to the little asterisk as well. But if it's not on the label it doesn't go into the heading. 

As for people with less knowledge, 5 minutes on Google inquiring about "lack of age statement" and "3 years" will give them vast amounts of information and varied opinions on the topic, if they're not willing to put the effort into that then it's not my problem. 



on Friday night, I got an invite to a belated Burns event and had the privilege of sharing some drinks with a great group of guys. Everyone brought a bottle and there were a few I hadn't tried or reviewed before, so I took a few notes and some quick scores. Obviously not as in-depth as a typical review, and more my overall impression of each dram. Here's the post on the TWS website as well

Once we got the whole selection on the table, I realized that I've never reviewed the Famous Grouse before, despite doing a couple of the other members of the Grouse line-up. 

Nose: sweet, grain alcohol

Palate:  grainy, sharp, sweet, sugar

Finish: mercifully short

Score: 55

grainy, sharp and tastes artificially sweet. Not good especially when there are much better blend options out there. 

I've never had anything from Aultmore, and don't see reviews of it often either, so I had no pre-conceived notions and was excited to try something unknown

Nose: tons of fruit. Peaches, apples, pears. Light and typical speyside nose

Palate: wow salty! Same fruit, woody bitterness. That salt is really surprising

Finish: long, briney, some fruit. 

Score: 81

better than I expected, as the nose didn't promise a ton of complexity. That salt really surprised me and the finish was way longer than I expected. Quite nice. 

I've had this before a couple of times, but never in a context where taking review notes was possible. Glad to get a review of it done finally. 

Nose: fruit, apple, honey, oak, quite mellow

Palate: tons of oak, lots of fruit, some honey, way more balanced than the 10. chocolate

Finish: medium length, sweet, oaky

Score: 86

very nice. I'm a fan. Not many glenmo's have impressed me, but that was really nice. ALSO, when posting this, I realized I actually HAVE reviewed it before as a mystery dram and scored it an 86 back then too! I didn't guess right on that mystery, but had many of the same tasting notes, so that's a win for the palate. 

hadn't had this solera malt before, or any of 'fiddich's travel retail line-up, but I enjoy the 15 Solera Vat bottling, so this could be good too. 

Nose: dark fruit, sherry, nutty oak. Tons going on, really nice nose. 

Palate: doesn't deliver on the nose. Some sherry, apples and dark fruit but very thin. Something missing. 

Finish: medium length, sweet.

Score: 79

not terrible but the palate and finish don't deliver on what the nose is promising. Not nearly as good as the 15 Solera. 

Another one I haven't had before but was curious how it stacked up vs the Amber. 

Nose: smells like typical Macallan, sherry, speyside-esque fruitiness. 

Palate: interesting, less fruit than the nose and more oak. Somewhat surprising based on the fruity nose. Some honey

Finish: short and oaky

Score: 80

disappointing finish, typical nose, but it was nicer on the palate than I expected. Rated the amber in the high 70s so my rating lines up with the experience.

Last time I reviewed this was also in a group setting and we aggregated scores, landing at 85. I wanted to see how it stacked up on an individual scoring basis. 

Nose: salty, oak, brine, sweet

Palate: light peat and smoke, more oak, quite salty

Finish: medium length, smoke and salt

Score: 82

nice entry level peated dram. I scored it slightly lower than the group did a couple years ago, but am happy with its score sitting around my average here. 

I haven't had this before, but am pretty sure there's a sample of it somewhere in my place. We had it before the Laphroaig and Port Charlotte thinking it'd be less heavily peated, but I think we may have been wrong?.

Nose: heavy peat, red fruit, sweet, smoky

Palate: ashy peat, walnuts, tons of earth, very nutty, dark fruit, some sweetness

Finish: long, peaty, lots of smoke

Score: 88

very nice. Love the balance of fruit, peat and earthiness. I think there's a sample of this somewhere in my backlog and I look forward to re-visiting it. 

Haven't tried the Triple Wood before, but have had the PX cask travel retail bottling which I believe is similar. 

Nose: peat, sherry, sweet ash, smoke, cherries

Palate: more ash, peat, cherry, sherry, smoke sweetness

Finish: long, ashy, peaty. 

Score: 86

very nice. Well balanced, but I did prefer the bunna. 

Besides these, I had some writer's tears to start the night, Glen Garioch Founder's Reserve, Auchentoshan 12 and Port Charlotte 2007 CC:01, all of which I've had before and didn't review. Overall a very fun night, though my head hurt a bit the next morning. thanks to the Grace West crew for the invite!



Hello Scotchers,

Continuing with the over-hyped sherried malt theme, today we've got some Macallan from the archives.

Instead of having another rant today, let's just get to the reviews.

?

Macallan 10 Sherry 40%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Sweet sherry, fresh fruit- Apple, vanilla, bit of toffee, coffee, malt note, caramel. After some time- More coffee and some chocolate, sticky toffee pudding.

Taste: Fresh fruit- Apple, bit of pear, light sherry, bit of chocolate, toffee, coffee, malty note.

Finish: Medium length. Drying with oak and coffee.

69/100

?

Macallan 18 Sherry 1996 43%

Colour: Amber

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Big, very sweet. Rich exotic spices (cinnamon and saffron) and fruit. Vanilla, thick sweet honey, lots of brown sugar, complex dried fruit- Raisin, dates, fig, red grape, plum, Christmas cake, all soaked in sweet old brandy and rum, old herb cupboard, tonnes of sweet sherry.

Taste: Creamy arrival, staying creamy with lots of complex fruit- Raisin, fig, apple, pear, dates, spice, complex oak, coffee, drying oak, Oloroso sherry, spice and herb cupboard, leather, wood polish, menthol, pipe tobacco, molasses. 

Finish: Long length. Coffee, oaky tannins with lasting fruity chocolate.

Notes: 1st time I had this it blew me and the Balvenie 21 Portwood away. 2nd time it was less good, average of the 2 scores.

83/100

?

Macallan Gold 40%

Colour: Gold

Body: Light/Medium

Nose: Fruit, vanilla, sherry notes, almond, marzipan, creamy cream, toffee. Apple pie, malty chocolate, twiggy toffee, sweet red apple, bit of cinnamon.

Taste: Sweet, then nothing for a bit, a bit watery, apple?, pear, bit of spice- Cinnamon, a little cream. Not much body.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Vanilla, sweet then a bit more spice. Dark chocolate and coffee after a bit.

65/100

?

Macallan Ruby 43%

Colour: Mid Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Fat, Sherried, rich fruit, raisin, lots of fig, blood orange, vanilla, pastry, chocolate cake.

Water: A small drop reveals an earthiness, wet leaves, Autumn, forest floor, red apple, cinnamon and other baking spices.

Taste: Soft arrival, tannins, oak, then a wave of rich dried fruit, raisin, fig, prune, oak still present, sticky PX sherry, raisin juice.

Water: Thinner but actually more nuances, small pockets of fresher fruit, red apple, some baking spices with cinnamon.

Finish: Medium length. Quite thin, oak and tannins.

70/100

?

Speymalt 1997 43%

Colour: Light Amber

Body: Medium

Nose: Sherry and apple, lovely fruity combo. Raisin, mango, malt, sweet honey, a floral note- Wild heather, quite old school with oily barley, fruit tea, spicy apple tea, cinnamon and ginger. Lovely balance.

Water: As with the Ruby- More reminiscent of Autumn. Forest floor, wet trodden leaves, barley sugar, crystallised honey, golden raisins.

Taste: Sweet arrival with barley sugar, then sweeter fruit, red and green apples, sour lemon citrus, malty, nutty dry oak, quite oily, honey and beeswax, building spicy ginger and white pepper, a small spirity note- vodka, some light bitterness coming out with some dark chocolate and liquorice, then toffee into the finish.

Water: Soft, building up with orchard fruit, red apple, golden raisins, soft spice, lovely fresh orange then some oak goes into the finish but not as bitter as before.

Finish: Medium length. Warming with bright toffee and a little dry oak.

Notes: Bottled 2015 at 18 years. From Sherry and Bourbon barrels I believe. Nose is a stunner but the taste is a little worse and the finish is a little worse again.

75/100



Network Average: 74.6

Best Score: 91

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent



Let's be honest: My last reviews of Macallan whiskies haven't been.... too high (except the Cask Strength). I'm not the biggest fan, I usually find them over praised, and don't find them too over the top.

And thus when they announced the 1824 series, I wasn't too shocked or appalled (except I was going to be able to buy the Cask Strength before it went away). The idea of it is a little juvenile, in that they'll name it after the colour imparted by the wood instead of the age. I guess they have their own way of determining the whisky is consistent, let's hope it's not some guy with a colour wheel staring at the barrels.

That being said, contrary to popular belief, I don't live in a bubble, and as such should try to expand my knowledge and my experience. So when I saw the Macallan Gold at the bar the other night, I decided now was a good time to try and see what the fuss was about.

Really, it couldn't be worse than the 10 year Oak, right?

Right?

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Price: $64.95 (CAD)

Colour: Number 4 toast

Nose: Sour, oak, perfume, leather bound books, burnt caramel, Sprite

Very oaky. I'm guessing that since this one isn't a red colour, it's from an oak barrel (hope that doesn't anger the Macallan team that I thought that for myself), though there's quite the sour, floral, and musty smell to it. Not too inviting.

Taste:  Honey, cinnamon, mozzarella, pepper, lime, soft cotton, red berries

There's almost a thickness to the dram, which is nice. It's refreshing, though the nose keeps throwing off my taste buds. Little bit of heat too, which is annoying.

Finish: Plums, nutmeg, oak, cranberry, apple cider vinegar

Sour, vinegary taste at the end. I guess I'm to assume they used Apple Cider Vinegar barrels maybe? I mean, that's gold too. Or maybe it's urine, which is also gold.

Conclusion: Being serious for a moment, and ignoring the idea that we choose a whisky based on colour, this really isn't all that special. It's musty, it's low Abv., it's not really doing anything different (other than taste like socks) and there's no way to tell if they used. 

Also I've read now that it was aged in both first fill and second fill ex-sherry casks. Well they didn't do too much, and it's another over hyped Macallan. It's almost prefer the dull Fine Oak 10 to this, and that's pretty sad.

70/100

Scotch review #93, Speyside review #29

Other Macallan Reviews

Macallan Fine Oak 10 year

Macallan 12 year Sherry cask

Macallan Sherry Cask Strength



You know...aside from naming an NAS whiskey by color, most of the other legacy distilleries do the same shit except they come up with a cool, unpronounceable name and some lame back story. I don't hold such contempt for Macallan as many do and find their whiskies to be good quality. Even the 10 year fine oak. 

However, I am sure the 1824 series are low quality, lame cash grabs, but I don't blame them for using industry standard marketing techniques. 



You do make a good point. I guess my issue is that it almost feels quite... juvenile doing so for a cheap whisky. I'm fine with others naming them after landmarks or legends because that sounds cool and somewhat adult. Colours sound like we're really dumb.

Edit: Sorry, was running to a meeting and had to cut my thought short. Basically I agree that the marketing is a poor decision for the others, however typically I feel that a lame (though usually rooted in some myths) back story is okay because at least then I can enjoy a fun story, like a Neil Gaiman book, and thus it feels more like a connection to an adult thing I do (drink whisky), where as naming based on the colouration makes me feel like an idiot.

Like, "Which one do you like?", "Dur, da gold one is pretty, yay!"

Again, I'm probably being meaner to them because I don't like 75% of their offerings, and I do that partially for comedic affect.