On my way back to Australia, I picked up a 1 litre bottle of The Macallan - Select Oak  from duty free as I'd never seen nor tried it before. Price was AUD $79.99. 40%ABV. Made for the travel industry exclusively. I also picked up The Macallan - Whisky Maker's Edition which will be my second review. Hope you enjoy my first review. 

The Macallan - Select Oak

Color: Dark amber. Almost copper.

Nose: Dried fruit when first poured which quickly give way to Sweet Butterscotch and a hint of Vanilla. Very simple nose.

Taste: Sweet spice, oily feel, yet medium body. Very sweet on the lips and tongue. Strong taste Vanilla on the middle of the tongue.  T

Finish: Medium and sweet. The sweet spice flavour over runs the finish initially but gives way to a long lingering vanilla finish. 

Overall: IMO This is a very "simple" sctoch there is no real depth or complex flavours. It is a very smooth dram and very easy to drink.  For the price it is quite nice. Keep in mind that Whisky is much more expensive here in Australia than anywhere else in the world as far as I know. I'd recommend this to a novice wanting to get into whisky. 

Total: 81/100



Thanks for the review! Seems like this one falls a bit short, huh? I've heard that the Whisky Maker's Edition is a huge step up from the Select Oak as far as duty free Macallans go.

In any case, thanks for the review! If you haven't submitted this to the archive yet, please do so when you get a chance. 

How about some flair?



Whisky Maker's Edition coming up...

Oh ho, a plot twist! I'm happy to hear that you have it! Can't wait to read that one!



This is a 1 litre bottle I just picked up at a duty free shop in Beijing on the way back home to Canada.  One of the travel editions that's only available in airports.

Released as part of the 1824 Collection in 2009.

Price: $55 CDN (duty free)

ABV: 40%

Colour: Light Yellow/Amber

Nose: a bit of alcohol when first poured, that fades quickly with time.  Sweet, with vanilla and toffee and a taste of hazelnut.  Woody spice and fruitiness.  Some sherry, but it's definitely not the predominant part of the nose

Palate: Gentle and sweet, but with a bit of dryness.  Lemony fruit with spices.  Nuts and oak.  Some sherry but again, not predominant.

Finish: Medium in length.  Some bitter nuttiness, oaky and a touch astringent.  Sweetness and sherry, and a bit of a peppery burn.

Taste:  67/75

Value: 12/15

Uniqueness: 3/5

Would buy again:  4/5

Total: 86/100

This isn't a complex or sophisticated dram, but it's very, very pleasant and eminently drinkable.  The fairly high point score is mainly because this is just a wonderful, easy drinking whisky.  I'd pick up a bottle in a moment if I ran across it again, and I think the bottle would disappear faster than many that I own.



Not over the top bitterness, just a faint taste ... more like the occasional walnut you get that has a little bitterness.  Like you, I'm not a fan of bitterness.  This was subtle.

Haven't read your review, but I'll pop over to the archive.  I try to make it a practice to not read other people's tasting notes before I do my own.  



Macallan Select Oak

The Select Oak is the entry level expression of the 1824 Collection, which was initially released for travel retail, but you can easily find it online. 

This expression is the mixture of whiskies influenced by first filled Spanish sherry oak casks, American oak casks that held sherry, and American ex-bourbon oak casks

Region: Speyside.

ABV: 40% (CF).

Colour: Deep gold.

Nose: Forest notes, toasted oak, marshmallows, vanilla, ginger, apricot, raisins, fruitcake, after a while pepper, and oak again. 

Taste: Subtle, honey, butterscotch, nutty, vanilla, hints of leather, and sherry, dry ginger.

Finish: Wine, spices, and malt.

Price:59? for a liter.

Well made whisky, I love the smell, specially the forest notes which really surprised me. But again the JW Blue Label feeling, experienced as well with 12FO, that this is only a product designed for non-whisky drinkers, assembled to be smooth, and fast in development. A product for showing off, and be sure that everybody?s going to like it.

70/100 - Simple, and smooth whisky.



Nose: Forest notes, toasted oak, marshmallows, vanilla, ginger, apricot, raisins, fruitcake, after a while pepper, and oak again.
Taste: Subtle, honey, butterscotch, nutty, vanilla, hints of leather, and sherry, dry ginger.
Finish: Wine, spices, and malt.

Could you expand on your score? I read your tasting notes and your impression of the smell and was excited, but your reasons for a low score seem more about marketing than taste. Was it just sort of bland and boring tasting on account of being meant for wide consumption?



I always tend to give low scores, so for me 70 is decent enough.

And the tasting notes are great, great on the paper, but on reality I feel they're flat, and without passion, a dram for enjoying shortly and keep moving.



my one sentence review: Like drinking liquid oak.  

It just didn't sit well with me but I am a newcomer to scotch. I think a more advanced palette would appreciate this more.



Hello Scotchit. 

It?s been an extremely stressful week, a good excuse to have a couple of drams, listen to some Miles Davis and Keb? Mo? on my underused LP12 and unwind. I?ve had this sitting in my cabinet for some 3 months now, I thought it was about time I tried it seeing as I didn?t fancy anything from my open collection.

Colour: Dark Gold

Nose: Mouthwatering blueberry muffins, pears, apricot jam, mango, marzipan and ginger.

Palate: Strawberry tart, almond butter, figs, vanilla cheesecake, and pungent wood shavings.

Finish: Australian Macadamia honey on toast, floral air freshener and lemons are accompanied by subtle wood resin pepper and spice notes.

The usual Macallan fruitiness is there is all it?s glory, alas spoilt slightly by some awful wood notes which I?m not too fond of. I don?t mean that lovely vanilla and honey oakiness either, I?m talking about harsh artificial resin and shavings, bordering almost on varnish. To think this is approximately the same value as the Director?s, I would go for the directors every time. 81/100



Director's Edition. But even that was a limited edition which is now becoming quite hard to source.

You should come visit a california Costco, they have rows and rows of the stuff for $49



I tried this one on a cruise (it was free with the beverage package I had).  I hated it.  Almost couldn't finish it.  I thought it might have been something I ate, maybe a bad bottle, something.  I tried it again later that week to be sure, from a different bottle.  It was the same thing... I don't even really know how to describe it.  It was almost like... bile or vomit/sour something?  And it wasn't hiding in the background either.  I later tried some Macallan 10 and then some 12, and didn't like either.  While it wasn't as strong, the bile/vomit taste was still there.  I guess Macallan isn't for me.

I also tried some Glenmorangie The La Santa the other day and also noticed that same flavor, though not as strong.  Perhaps it's the sherry?  Those 4 are the only sherry-matured scotches I've tried and I haven't tried straight sherry so I'm not sure.



I hear that... I genuinely have no interest in every buying a bottle of Macallan. Would rather support people like Glenfarclas.

Got to be one of my favourite distilleries. No bullshit, just good whisky at a fair price. 



Whiskey Network Review #43  r/Scotch Review #24

Info: So in my last swap u/MajorHop included a mystery to solve. Time to don my deerstalker and pipe, call my good Dr. friend and see what I can deduce.

Appearance: On first appearance I would say that the particular shade of this mysterious liquid is of amber, but upon further inspection my suspicions of carmel coloring grow strong.

Nose: I dare say my dear Waton the odor of dark red fruit, and sweet citrus is quite evident, and I do believe I detect a hint of cocoa and nutmeg, and a subtle whiff of molasses.

Taste: Hmm this is most perplexing, the evidence of a classic Speyside is quite strong. Orange, apple and pear are quite prominat, as well as brown sugar and cinnamon, perhaps u/MajorHop was eating a snickerdoodle and spilt some crumbs in the bottle as this could explain the occurrence of these flavors as well as nutmeg and molasses. Quite a trick this is playing on me, at first glance I might think a port finish is a foot based on the orange peel like flavor, but upon further review it is now most likely a sherry finish, specifically a dry sherry such as Oloroso is now the main suspect in our search.

Conclusion: You see the power of deduction is quite simple, first you eliminate what it is not which then leaves you with what it is. It is not cask strength, closer to 43 or 45% abv. It is a dryer flavor, so I eliminate PX casks. And absolutely not peated which you should know by now if you have been paying attention. If I had to guess an age I would put this in the 12-15 year range. 

My first instinct is to say Glenmorangie specifically Quinta Ruban, but while I do detect quite a bit of orange peel that we can associate with port, I do not believe it is port.  I am fairly confidant it is not Aberlour, Balvinie, Glendronach, Glengoyne as I think I could tell those right away. Macallan is out, the nose is close but the abv or the citrus doesn?t match. It could be Glenlivit something or other, but its not cask strength so not Nadurra, and the ABV is too high to be from the core line. 

At this time we must make an educated guess, we have what is probably an oloroso finish, citrus specifically orange is evident, abv is in the low to mid 40's, based on my personal history with our suspects I an only conclude this is Glenfarclas 12 year old as it fits all of the profile chararistics we have established for our suspect.

I wonder how horribly wrong I am?

Rating: B-

A+:  Perfection, how do I replace my blood with this! (95-100/100)

A: Damn good, would love to always keep a bottle of this laying around at all times if I could afford to. (90-95/100)

B: I like it, would buy the occasional bottle, or order the occasional glass, but there are others I prefer more. (80-89/100)

C: Unremarkable but drinkable, right in the middle of the bell curve. (70-79/100)

D: Mixer, I don?t want to drink it straight up. (60-69/100)

F: Nope, nope, nope (59-0/100)



What was not taken into account in this case was the occurrence of the vagabond of the travel retail offerings. 

The nose was indeed that of Macallan, Macallan Select Oak to be precise. Bottled at a mere 40% abv as correctly identified, using some oroloso casks, but also some other oak to achieve that snickdoodlyness.

This has been a favorite of mine to mystery sample, to get reactions on a Macallan that isn't as common.



Type: Single Malt -
Region: Speyside -
Age: NAS -
ABV: 40%

Colour: Pale Gold

Nose: The First Fill Ex-Sherry Casks make their mark together with Oak, Butterscotch, Malt, Dried Fruits (Raisins and Blackberries), Fresh Fruit (Pears), Leather and Tobacco. Hints of Grass and Lemon. Hardly any Alcohol present.

Taste: Sweet Sherry, Spices (White Pepper and Ginger), Butterscotch, Licorice, Nuts, Oak, Vanilla.

Finish: Middle-Long and Dry with White Pepper, Oak, Raisins and Almonds. A hint of Chocolate.

I added a few drops of Water and you get more Malt and Fruit (Peach) on the Nose. Palate and Finish don't benefit from the Water however so my advice is to sip this dram neat.

Rating:  85.5 

Nose:  21.5 - Taste:  21.5 - Finish: 21  - Overall: 21.5

General Remarks: The Select Oak forms part of the 1824 Travel Retail Series, released in 2009 to celebrate 1824, the year that the Macallan Distillery was licensed. The other 3 are the Estate Reserve, the 1824 Limited Release and the Whisky Maker's Edition. The Select Oak is a vatted blend of Single Malt Macallan whiskies matured in different Cask Types namely American Oak seasoned with either Bourbon or Sherry and a high percentage of First-Fill European Oak Sherry Casks.

Drinking Experience Neat: Good

Conclusion: If you like a sherried dram, this Macallan might be a nice option. I think it's better than the 10 Year Sherry Oak. I don't know if it's still available but I bought it two years ago at the Duty Free for US$ 55 a liter. And that's not a bad price. On the Nose the Sherry and Butterscotch are dominant. The Oak is of good quality though and I like the Tobacco and Leather Tones. The Palate is basically a combination of Sweet Sherry and strong Spices. The Pepper holds its ground in the Middle-Long Finish. In my opinion the Select Oak is a well-crafted dram with a good price/quality ratio, especially for a Travel Retail Bottling. It would improve even further if it would be bottled at a higher ABV of say 46%. As it is, the Select Oak is a good choice for an after dinner dram but not quite exciting enough for me to sip on a regular basis. 



So I have posted a few reviews over at r/bourbon, but I am also a big fan of its brother across the Atlantic. The Macallan 12 Sherry is the dram that got me hooked so I'll start my reviews out with a Mac offering. Picked this up on my honeymoon in the Caribbean while hunting for rum. Felt the Estate Reserve was overpriced after my dislike of Rare Cask at a similar price point, but still harbor a love of the Macallan so picked this up.

Region: Highland (Really Speyside)

40% ABV

Color: Pale Golden Barley
Drank: Neat, in a glencairn
Nose: A butterscotch fudge with sherry oak and hints of raisins.
Taste: Vanilla pudding, honey oak, and slightly oily.
Finish: Sweet cherry and medium length with a pleasant spice.

Overall: Lighter than Macallan's standard fair but a good summer dram. I feel a higher ABV of even 3% could bring a fair bit more complexity and flavor out of this one. Wouldn't recommend ice or water or this would lose to much. While I still prefer the sherry line, I much prefer this to the fine oak offerings I have tasted.

Score: 78/100



Just another mystery sample from my alphabet soup megaswap.  This time it's /u/Luckydog1010's sample, which came complete with a reveal card.  Just in case you are worried, I composed this a few days ago.  I am not attemptingthree mystery samples a day

Nose: fruit (yellow apples), oak, plastic, geraniums, wet oak, maybe a faint touch of sulfur or gunmetal. Speyside from very old sherry casks, I'm thinking

Taste: faint black pepper over base malt. Cardboard form of oak. More fruit, and some sherry raisins this time. 

Finish: sherry really coming through here with a cinnamon/apple/raisin thing. Fades to sulfur and gunmetal.

My guess is an IB Speyside in refill sherry. Early to mid teens. It's a pleasant scotch to drink, gentle and not abrasive. There's enough flavor to be interesting if you are looking for that and not so much that you feel bad mindlessly drinking it. This sits with Glenlivet 12, Macallan 10 Fine Oak, and even Glenlivet 15 in profile and score:

Score: 90/100

The reveal: Macallan Select Oak

I've never really heard much about this, as I generally don't have access to the travel retail market. It's actually quite good to me, which is unexpected as I generally dislike The Macallan's offerings. The only hint of all that was the plastic in the nose, but it was easily passed by. Also, I'm not getting the butterscotch and vanilla I'm supposed to be finding, but I blame that on having had too many bourbons lately.

Would I buy it again? Maybe. Not for $80, but if it was available for $50 or $60 it would be quite likely. 

Thank you /u/Luckydog1010 for a chance to reevaluate my prejudice against a distillery.



Hi Scotchit, smee again! Today I have another Macallan review:

The Macallan Select Oak

Speyside, 40%

color: dull gold

nose: bees wax, red licorice, tropical fruit: mango, litchi, cocoa powder, toffee, hint of custard

taste: malted barley, oak, tangerine, peach, cake, vanilla

finish: lingers

Very fruity, especially in the nose, but not in an artificial, chemical way. Well balanced. Not as good as some Macallans with age statement or the CS, but way better than the new fancy Ruby, Sienna, Fuzzy, Puffy and Sexarossa or what their names are.

86/100



Thanks to /u/Phreaky-Zee for this sample.

What's the deal with Travel Exclusives? Well... they're made to be flashy, and it's pretty much a dumping ground for failed experiments.

Make sense? Okay, we're done here.

Oh wait, I have a review to do. 

Macallan Select Oak is the Travel Exclusive from those crazy people at Macallan, who try... a bunch of things and then water it all down. But I still love one of their drams, and the juice is good, and... well, I think of them as Nickleback of Whisky.

Sure, their music is shit. But a ton of people buy it, and they use that money to bring out other bands, like Lamb of God, who otherwise would have been ignored. So I appreciate them for helping Metal bands. Probably. Who knows with me.

So this is part of the 1824 Collection, named after a year that happened (Citation Needed). All of this collection is Travel Retail.

This one was aged in a combination of casks: ex-Bourbon, ex-Oloroso American Oak, and ex-Oloroso European casks that are first fill.

Damn Macallan, that's big money! (I'm now whiter than I've ever been).

So, let's see how the "lighter side" of this range tastes, shall we?

Price: N/A at the LCBO (Travel Exclusive)

Region: Speyside

Abv: 40%

Colour: 2.5Y 5/6

Nose: Sour apples, bay leaf, ginger, carrot

Yup, there's a sherry influence. Earthy and sweet.

Not much of a nose here. It's Michael Jackson (the singer) all up in here. And it would make Michael Jackson (the ex-whisky guy) sneer. Or not. Honestly I didn't know the guy, he may have loved it.

It's quite light. Lighter than it should be.

Taste: Lemon, apple, floral, lemongrass, earth

Sweet again, with the earth. Kinda wish they had used PX casks, however I think they were going with a lighter touch. Darn they. It's weak. Not 'subtle', not 'smooth', it's weak.

Low Abv is a sad barnacle on whisky's collective Johnson.

Finish: Carrot, ginger, pear, pepper

Ends with earth and sweet. What a surprise? I'm certainly surprised.

Conclusion: It's a weak whisky that needs a higher Abv to make it work. It could be great. It could be good even. But it isn't. It's just boring.

Not unpalatable though. Just boring. Tastes of earth and sweet notes. Pour it for non-whisky drinkers, they'll love it. Or mix it into a Manhattan, that'll be different.

62/100

Scotch review #388, Speyside review #115, Whisky Network review #593

Other Macallan reviews:

Macallan Fine Oak 10

Macallan Fine Oak 12

Macallan Fine Oak 15

Macallan Fine Oak 17

Macallan Fine Oak 21

Macallan Gold

Macallan Sherry Cask 12

Macallan Sherry Cask 18

Macallan Sherry Cask Strength

Macallan Sienna

Link to my website with all my reviews



Nickleback of Whisky

Goddamn right.



My Current Whisky Network Average = 77.42   

Standard Deviation = 10.15  

Skewness = -2.67926 

Kurtosis = 10.80591 

Median = 80 

IQR = 9