As with my last submission here, this one is a collection of reviews that I did quickly at an event so some aren?t as fully fleshed-out as I would like. Sorry. :/

?

Highland Park Dark Origins (Single Malt, Island, 46.8% ABV, Natural Colour, NCF, NAS)  

Price:  $107 CAD  

Tasted:  At an Edrington Group table at a tasting.  

Colour:  Amber +3  

Nose:  Sickly sweet, but rife with heather and sherry cask influence. Saccharine and earthy, floral and salty. A touch of peat smoke and caramel apple.  

Palate:  Luscious smoke, peat, sherry cask influence. Lavender and heather?both fresh and singed?menthol and rosemary. Thick mouthfeel.  

Finish:  Long, slow, wooded. Oak and sherry/European oak influence intermingle with gentle peat and earth. There?s maltiness present, but it?s been covered up by oak tannins and cask-inherited flavours.

Packaging/Design:  Black bottles seem to be in vogue, but they have the same issue they always have?you can?t see the fill level, so you can?t easily tell when you?re running low. I don?t love them. Personally I?ve not been a fan of Highland Park?s branding in the past, so this one doesn?t speak to me. It stands out on a shelf, I guess, which was probably the intent.  

Conclusion:  The Edrington rep told me this was between 13-14 years old on average, but of course there?s no way to verify that, so I?d take it with a Glencairn of salt. It definitely tastes mature enough, doesn?t seem like they?re throwing oodles of 3- year-old whisky into the vatting or anything, but I still enjoy a good age statement on my dram. They?re not necessary, just? appreciated. Regardless this is a decent dram for the price if you like your whisky to taste more like sherry and oak than like barley malt. A decent addition to the range.  

83/100.  

?

The Famous Grouse (Blended Scotch Whisky, 40% ABV, NAS)  

Price:  $31 CAD  

Tasted:  At an Edrington Group table at a tasting.  

Colour:  Amber -2  

Nose:  Sweet and sherried, very Edrington. That said, there?s little else going on.  

Palate:  Sweet, corn whisky, malt notes, floral honey, simple but nice. Exactly what I imagine when I imagine an inexpensive blend. Would be nice on ice or in a cocktail.  

Finish:  Saccharine and oaky, but overall fleeting and short. But it?s an inexpensive blend?it?s not meant to stick around long.  

Packaging/Design:  It has a bird on it! I like birds, so I like that. Nothing else about it appeals to me though.  

Conclusion:  It?s a cheap blend that tastes like a cheap blend. Not bad at all, but hardly something to sip neat and savour.  The Edrington rep told me that the response to the newer packaging has overall been negative, so they?ll be returning to the older packaging style soon. So? look forward to that I suppose.

73/100.

?

Famous Grouse Smoky Black (Blended Scotch Whisky, 40% ABV, NAS)  

Price:  $38 CAD  

Tasted:  At an Edrington table at a tasting.  

Colour:  Amber +1  

Nose:  Gentle peat that seems more Ileach than Orcadian, honey, fudge.  

Palate:  Gentle, sweet, smooth, but smoky nonetheless. Almonds and sultanas. Does what it says on the tin.  

Finish:  Medium length, sweet and oaky.  

Packaging/Design:  I liked the Black Grouse packaging (the li?l bird looked so proud on it) but the new Smoky Black one is? less appealing.  

Conclusion:  It?s like the Famous Grouse with the addition of some peated whisky and a bit more European oak or sherry-cask influence. I like it more, but not because of the smoke, it just seems a bit more well-rounded. I hope they change the packaging back on this one, too.  

77/100.  

?

Cutty Sark Prohibition (Blended Scotch Whisky, 50% ABV, NCF, NAS)  

Price:  $43 CAD  

Tasted:  At an Edrington Group table at a tasting.  

Colour:  Amber +1  

Nose:  Ethanol. Oranges, salt, malt, salt water taffy. This needs water, the addition of which reveals almonds, oak tannins, vanilla & hazelnut.  

Palate:  Macallan presence hits you immediately with sherry and oranges, malt, a bit of smoke, loads of oak. Pretzels, salt water taffy and honey.  

Finish:  Sweet, bit of corn influence, kind of a cross between a decent bourbon and a mid-range single malt. Very spiced.  

Packaging/Design:  The bottle is u-g-l-y. I strongly dislike it. Also it?s black again, which means it?s hard to see how much is left in it. That said, the bottle feels quite sturdy in the hands?it would be difficult to drop it by accident.  

Conclusion:  The Edrington rep told me that on average the blend is around 7 years old, that it?s non-chill-filtered and relies heavily upon Macallan and Glenrothes for its malt components. He said it has a lot more malt than the average Cutty Sark, but I can?t say I?ve tried it. Do I believe the 7-year age claim? Somewhat, but as with any blend that number is never going to be accurate for long. I did like this blend?it?s too hot, but with a bit of water it?s drinkable neat, and it isn?t bad. Maybe not great for someone accustomed to single malts, but for those making the transition from blend-to-malt, or someone who wants something they can drink on ice or in a cocktail but still taste that malty component?? This would fit the bill.  

80/100.

?

The Macallan Rare Cask (Single Malt, Speyside, 43% ABV, NAS)  

Price:  $460 CAD  

Tasted:  At an Edrington Group table at a tasting.  

Colour:  Amber +2  

Nose:  Honey and sweet Seville oranges, salted hazelnuts, sherry influence abounds?Oloroso influence with nuts and pralines, Fino with saltiness and a bit of a briney/salt watery note.  

Palate:  Salty, sweet, waxy mouthfeel. Honeyed and floral, strong (but not overbearing) oak tannins. With time red wine influence shows, and this gets grapey and jammy.  

Finish:  Amazing floral bouquet, spiced and balanced. Oak shows but it?s not too tannic and is well in balance and harmony with the rest of the dram. Medium length.  

Packaging/Design:  The whole bloody bottle looks like some sort of peregrine falcon to me. It?s like the proudest bird was filled with whisky and told to stand on a shelf. It?s almost? cocky. Like, the bottle thinks very highly of itself, which is pretty much what I?d expect from The Macallan. If the whisky were darker in colour it would look like the Maltese Falcon, actually.  

Conclusion:  Great single malt for a casual drinker, fits right in-line with intro-level Macallan offerings. But it?s FOUR HUNDRED-AND-SIXTY DOLLARS. That?s just silly. It has no age statement, but the Edrington rep said it was around 25 years old on average. (Take that with an Edrington-owned-bodega-sourced ex-sherry cask of salt.) If I got a bottle as a gift I?d just be upset that I didn?t get 3-4 bottles of something else instead, unless it was bought at Macallan Gold/Amber prices. But it?s not bad whisky, just unsavoury marketing.  

83/100.  

?

Kilchoman Sanaig (Single Malt, Islay, 46% ABV, Natural Colour, NCF, NAS)

Price:  $0 (Not available in this market yet.)  

Tasted:  At a tasting event at a table that had a few Amrut offerings and some other spirits. I only got to try the Sanaig, as the event was ending by the time I got to the table. :/  

Colour:  Amber +2  

Nose:  Lovely sweet smoky barley, peat, salt, and Terry?s chocolate orange. Classic Kilchoman profile, and it has oak for days.  

Palate:  Sweet, spiced, chalky and lovely. Peat smoke crossed with cotton candy. Salt for days, peanuts, peanut oil popcorn, lavender, sandal wood and dark chocolate.  

Finish: Very long, aromatic, plenty of sherry cask influence on this one. Sweet and smoky, salt water taffy, salted caramel, sweet oak and smoke. I?d gladly have another glass if I wasn?t being shuffled out of the hotel.  

Packaging/Design:  Lovely sturdy bottle, and a purple box! I love purple, I love Kilchoman?s packaging? I just don?t love their corks. They never fit well once the bottle has been opened in my experience. :/  

Conclusion:  Lovely dram, my first experience with sherry-influence in Kilchoman, so I?m happy to have tried it. Unfortunately, I?m sure the bottle will hold an utterly ridiculous price tag ?round these parts, as the only Kilchoman available in this market is Machir Bay and it usually sells out rather quickly in the liquor stores around here.  

86/100.



Thank ye kindly. I've only had one bottle of Kilchoman myself (Coull Point), and the cork was just... horribly wrong. It didn't fit in snugly if put in one way, and if put in another it was too snug.  

I've poured from a bottle of Machir Bay (though I haven't had the chance to try it, paradoxically) and the cork wasn't as bad, but a tad too snug. Maybe I just have bad luck. :S



?

Nose: Brown sugar, floral notes, spicy baby vomit, dust, cinnamon... the nose starts off rough but with strong overtones of brown sugar.  Eventually the sherry loses some of the acidic baby vomit and comes up with pleasant fruits but nothing too compelling or complex.   

To get much of a nose at all you really need to dig in there.

Palate: Immediate hit of bitterness followed by spicy/sweet baby vomit, weak sherry, still some hints of age in there with cask influence if you're looking for it.  Not sure if you'd notice it blind though.  

The spicy baby vomit thing is all I really get.  Would compare this with Glenmorangie Duthac which tells me a lot.

Finish: Some dust and a lingering bitterness from casks long dead and possibly past their prime when dumped in.  

Overall: This is a less complex and less interesting malt than Glenmo's Duthac which I gave a 60 and I stand by that score.  Did not want to finish this sample. 

Score: 55/100

?

Nose: A much deeper and darker brown sugar, not quite as sweet, hints of green vines, touch of baby vomit, sherry fruits - strawberries, plums, dark cherries.  

This is a solid sherried nose.  It is straightforward.  I have seen reviews of bottles from 2009 that make me think they have dialed down the age a fair amount.  Little to no sulfur here.

Palate: A good bit more oak spice and a lot less vomit.  Is it possible that this is, on average, older than the Rare Cask?   There's plenty of oloroso sherry and somewhere between the palate and the finish you get a hint of what Glendronach's single casks can be with the earthy funk notes and touches of sulfur.  Still, there is a bit more acidity than I would prefer in a sherried malt.  

Finish: Cinnamon, cloves, darker earth notes, strawberry jam, lingering oak spice, just a touch of dust.  A shadow of the bitterness of older casks is also there.

Overall: Solid malt.  Not something I would chase after since discontinuation but this could be a pretty great daily dram at the right price.

Score: 79/100

?

There really doesn't seem to be any.  I'm not a giant fan of sherried malts but Glendronach 15 is better than Macallan Rare Cask in every category and that's not because the 'Revival' is so good, it's because Rare Cask is so embarrassingly bad.  



last night I was at a bar and after a couple bourbons (Canadian / first time in NYC) I went for a laphroaig 10 cuz it's better than bourbon 

Bartender pours my drink and finishes off the bottle with no back-up. apologizes and offers me a free macallan 12. I say sure. 

I'm a bartender at a scotch bar but it's a whisky I've never gotten around to it. It was the most boring scotch I've ever had; I'm normally a big fan of sherry but it was just so flat and one dimensional it almost felt like it should be done as a shot. 



"I have seen reviews of bottles from 2009 that make me think they have dialed down the..."

Judging from your (nice) review I would guess your bottle was bottled later, I would say about 2014 ;)



With rarity at its core, this is a whisky crafted from casks so rare they will never again be used in any Macallan whisky.>

If the casks were any good you'd think they would use them again.....considering there is allegedly a cask shortage and all.



What they should say is:

Casks so good we could sell them to Glendronach.



Hello Scotchit-

I'm here with a review of The Macallan Rare Cask.  Here is the low down of the bottling from The Macallan's site:

"Crafted to showcase complexity and depth, Rare Cask is drawn from the broadest spectrum of casks, 16 different types, ever identified by the Master Whisky Maker. Far less than 1% of those casks maturing at the distillery have been identified as fitting to bestow the Rare Cask name.  With rarity at its core, this is a whisky crafted from casks so rare they will never again be used in any Macallan whisky. Combining Spanish and American sherry seasoned oak casks, a high proportion of them first fill, gives rise to an exquisite whisky with a splendidly rich hue, and an unmistakably woody whisky.  Soft notes of opulent vanilla and raisin on the nose, give way to apple, lemon, and orange. Balanced by a spicy quartet of root ginger, cinnamon, nutmeg and clove. Oak resonates, timeless, polished and rich. Vanilla and chocolate lead the finale along with a light citrus zest. The finish is full, warming and woody."

K and L Wine's description of The Rare Cask: "The result is a richer, darker, more chocolately version of Macallan with a thicker profile and a complex palate of raisins, sultana, orange peel, and ginger. With the current market craze for first-fill sherry whisky, a la Aberlour A'Bunadh and Glendronach, the Rare Cask represents an aggressive and more modern approach from the typically conservative Macallan. This is bold, chewy, full-bodied single malt that showcases the deep stocks and the immaculate wood management from Scotland's most iconic distillery. It's a whisky that provides a peek into the most choice sherry-aged whiskies currently available. "

This all sounds good.  NAS and low ABV do not bother me as long as it tastes good.   Let's see what I have here.

The Macallan Rare Cask

43 % ABV, NAS
$270

Color: Amberish with reddish tint.  Looks like a sherried scotch.

Nose: Very light, does not have a very aged nose for sure.  Prunes most definitely, vanilla, cough medicine, banana, and underlying cooked cereal.

Taste: Very light mouth feel (I detect no full bodyness at all). Sherry, vanilla, Sour lemon tear jerker, Red Berries Special K.  This is all over the place.  Doesn't mesh well for me at all.

Finish: On the short side. The off-putting sourness lingers. Cherry cough medicine, dry oak (Some age finally shows), honeyed sweetness.  Forgettable.

73/100

Wow, I would be really upset if I shelled out $270 for a bottle of this.  GlenDronach 12 or  Glen Garioch (NAS or 12) blows this out of the water.  Heck, I have had a past sampling of The Macallan 12 better than this (although the Macallan 12 has been inconsistent for me as well). There is nothing rare or special about this.  May be they are not using enough 1% of their barrels? There are some nice flavors here, but very light tasting and conflicting as well.  The sourness I was getting I do not want in my scotch.  The Rare cask is bottom-line forgettable.  Not sure if this is just a bad bottle or what, but really disappointing.  I just don't think Macallan is for me.

Cheers Scotchit!



I attended the NYC "Raise the Macallan" event last night. I thought I'd do some quick reviews. Take them with a grain of salt, as I prefer to review at home over a couple of slowly savored drams. I'm not able to provide a ton of detailed notes, but I'm pretty confident in my overall impression of these. 

For a quick review of the event itself: we were poured a full dram of the 10 year Fine Oak as we milled around a room that featured several exhibits: a blind nosing station, an example of one of Macallan's unusually small copper stills, a few of their ridiculously expensive bottles in a glass case, a couple of leather chairs in front of a Macallan backdrop where you could have a professional photographer take your picture. 

We were then shown into the tasting room and seated at tables with other attendees. The emcee was Craig, a Macallan brand ambassador. Friendly, corny. His video-assisted presentation went over a lot of basics of what single malt Scotch whisky is, which I found to be a waste of time but I imagine newbies would appreciate. There were interactive touchscreens at each table where we were polled about how we liked to drink our whisky and flavor notes we detected in each sample. Kind of fun to see which answers got the most votes. The most cringeworthy part of the event was multiple exhortations to post about the event on social media using their hashtags and whatnot. You know that stock character of the record company exec with the slicked-back ponytail who calls you "babe"? This event felt like interacting with that guy. You know he has a lot of money and you're kind of impressed and flattered that he's giving you the time of day, but he's out of touch and not vibing on your level and trying to sell you on something that rubs you the wrong way. And yet it's hard to bag on it too hard, obviously a lot of effort was put into this and it was free, so I do appreciate that. Here are my impressions of the samples:

Macallan 10 Fine Oak, 43%

Nose: Pineapple, Sharpie, lilac

Taste: Thin. Almond, green grape, butter on toast

Finish: Decently long. Bitter almond predominates.

Middling. I'd rather buy a decent affordable blend such as Monkey Shoulder. 75/100

Macallan 12 Sherry Oak, 43%

Nose: Chocolate orange, cereal

Taste: Astringent. Coffee, raisin

Finish: Nearly identical to the 10. Perhaps shorter.

Also pretty meh.  78/100

Macallan 15 Fine Oak, 43%

Nose: Anise, strawberry, peach

Taste: Sweetness reminiscent of Glenmorangie. Orange, honey, cream

Finish: Creamy, dark chocolate

Not amazing, but definitely the standout of the night. 83/100

Macallan Rare Cask, no age statement, 43% 

Nose: Floral, plum, nutmeg

Taste: Sweet sherry. More PX than Oloroso? 

Finish: Tannic, oaky, bitter

You have to be kidding me. There are people who would pay $300 for this? I wouldn't pay $50. It's not bad, but to present this as a hyper-premium whisky is just offensive. Nice nose though. 79/100

I dunno. Except for the 15, all of these share a thin and bitter character that is off-putting to me. I guess I'm not really a Macallan sort of guy? Oh well. Had a good time, though.



But, it tastes like a sherrybomb filtered through a sweaty sock.

OMG YES!



This is: Review #143! And a sample of Macallan Rare Cask, a NAS super special bottling from the legendary Speyside distillery.  

Color: Brown.  

Nose: Spice... cinnamon and anise.  

Taste: smooth & light... pine, apple, water.  

Finish: sweet & dry... honey and oak tannins. Rather short.  

Conclusions: Nothing too offensive, but nothing much in general. When I was sipping this, my first thought was "Glenlivet Devil's Cut." Which is not a thing. Afterward I poured a glass of Ardbeg 10 and thought "ahhhh, that's much better!" Anyway, this one is a solid C. Not taking into account price, of course. 75/100



Distilled/Owned by: Macallan / Edrington Group

Region: Speyside

43% ABV

Mashbill: 100% Malted Barley

Aged For: NAS

Cask Type: Sherry Cask

Chill Filtered: Yes

Color Added: No

Color: Tawny

Drank: Neat, in a glencairn.

Nose: Sherried malt and candied almonds. A bit of dried fruit and ginger with chocolate and citrus. 

Mouthfeel: Lighter

Palate/Taste: Raisins and fig, with sherry and dried banana. Milk chocolate and vanilla with a touch of oak.

Finish: Medium length with caramel and ginger being most predominant, slight fruitiness

Thoughts: It?s Macallan 12, in a fancy overpriced bottle, and my score reflects this. It?s not bad, but for $50 less you can get Macallan 18, (Which is also overpriced) a dram with far more complexity and deep sherry.

Score: 78/100



Great review, and I totally agree. I tried this side by side the 12 at a whisky show last year and they were almost indistinguishable to my palate. 

I really don't get the point of this release (beyond being a money grab).



Congrats on #100!

Ive personally not bothered with this one as its too much money.



Macallan Rare Cask ? 43%, $300 

Nose: Strong malt, deep oak, treacle, light heather, dried plum, orange marmalade, slight sherry spices, very light astringency. 

Taste: Light sherry, light dried fruits, light malt, slight bitter, dry tannins, bitter oak. Light mouthfeel.  

Finish: The bitter oak turns a little to bitter bile before subsiding. Once it's gone there is a pleasant sweet sherry spice and a stronger malt note. Medium length.  

Notes: The nose was setting me up for something special but that bitter ruined the enjoyment. Aside from the light notes everything in the background was very nice. If only that bitter hadn't taken over. 

75/100 



The nose was setting me up for something special but that bitter ruined the enjoyment.

Just about every review/blog post I've seen on this one says something to this effect. I think this is one for the real hardcore Macallan fanboys (i.e. people with more money than brains)



That bitter note does happen quite often in heavily sherry'd expressions (the Yamazaki sherry cask is a good example) that use young, first-fill Spanish oak sherry casks; they are trying pump-up the sherry influence too quickly. More evenly matured and older (non-NAS) examples tend to have that bitterness transform to a spiciness (the GlendDronach 15 being a good example). 

I tried a couple of drams of the Rare Cask and thought it was pretty good (I didn't pick up the bitterness, it just came across as a watered-down A'bunadh - punchy, fairly well balanced but still young). The problem is it's only pretty good; it's at most a $60-70 dollar bottle of scotch. It doesn't hold a candle to the 18 year sherry cask or, for that matter, the 1824 Ruby (both of which are also very over-priced). At 300 bucks, they are out of their minds as GlenDronach and Glenfarclas both have vastly superior expressions for half the price.

But the bottle does look bitchin.



That bitter note does happen quite often in heavily sherry'd expressions (the Yamazaki sherry cask is a good example) that use young, first-fill Spanish oak sherry casks; they are trying pump-up the sherry influence too quickly. More evenly matured and older (non-NAS) examples tend to have that bitterness transform to a spiciness (the GlendDronach 15 being a good example). 

That's a good observation. I haven't had the Rare cask, but can relate to what you are describing for the other two.



I've been a Macallan drinker for two decades and I still like the 12 and 18 sherry cask, but this whole thing with color is ridiculous. You can use first fill casks, age it for a fairly short period and end-up with dark, young, unbalanced whisky. Using color as the tiering for a whisky range is ludicrous even in the world of sherry matured scotch because it's easy to manipulate color (even without E150). 

The reason age statements matter is that age provides opportunity to manipulate maturation,  evaluate progress and many other elements of the creation process that get compressed or left on the floor when rushing production to feed the NAS sales-target monster.

NAS can be good, but it generally works within a specific flavor and complexity profile (e.g. A'bunadh) and the best age-statement scotch generally trumps NAS counterparts. This is why I think people (including me) have such a problem with Macallan's approach to NAS; their history and current marketing are built on making excellent no-compromises whisky, but NAS is all about compromise which simply doesn't fit with what Macallan-Edrington is trying to sell us.



Let me just be picky and say that I think you (or we all, really) mean "young" where you said "NAS." NAS is a label type, not a whisky type.

Yes, NAS almost always = young, but NAS is very specifically a labeling phenomena.



I really like the 18. I'd take it over any fine oak regardless of how old they are. I have had 17 and 21 so far. But 18 Sherry blows them away. 

Edit: I would add the Glengoyne 18 and 21 to your list. 



Review #250, woohoo! Time for a very rare review of a very rare whisky from the rarest of distilleries, Macallan. 

Macallan Rare Cask

Strength: 43%

Color: The rarest of amber. 

Nose: Lots of sherry note, undoubtedly from the rarest of casks. Plums, raisins, and some sour fruit as well. Toffee and rare chocolate are in there too. 

Palate: The rarest of raisins, dried fruit, and more toffee. It has the same winey character of Macallan Cask Strength, but it's much thinner, naturally. 

Finish: Oak and dark chocolate. Medium length finish. 

Summary: I expected to hate this, but it's actually quite fine. On par with regular ole Macallan 12.

Score: 86/100 

Scotch Review #125

Whisky Review #250

/u/review_bot 'Macallan'



Nice review, this is more what I expected from this release than tex's review (here). 

I wouldn't expect a company like Macallan to have that much variation between bottles, so I'm surprised at the difference in experience. 



LetThereBeR0ck's latest Macallan reviews:

Hey I'm a bot! Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  This isn't going to go well.  I've been seeing the Macallan Rare Cask 43%abv around for about a year now.  Its pretty.  But that usually means whats inside is crap and thats all that matters to me.  I love Macallan Cask Strength.   I enjoy the 12 and the 18 is okay.  The fine oak line was decent too.  The 25 was over-aged.  This bottle holds no age statement, but it says RARE!  So it must be good!  Well... J&B also says Rare on it....  

Color: copper

Nose: sweet thin acidic strawberries.  paper.  light, weak-ass.  mildly jammy. 

Taste: sharply acidic sweet, mildly saccharine.  no sulfur at least. is there such a fruit called Lameberry?  because this has lameberry.  nothing to it really, somewhat bitter.  weak-ass. 

Finish: bad aftertaste actually.  bitter, kinda sad. 

Weak Ass Bitch!  Maybe Macallan was jealous of Johnnie Walker Blue Label and decided "Hey, we can make a super weak, crap bottling too!  We just have to concentrate on the way the bottle looks".  The bottle is huge btw, like a 1.75 of Grey Goose tall.  

Now you might say, 'Tex - you've just had a bunch of nice stuff in your life and this is probably still really good'

Nope, not it at all.  I poured a glass of Macallan 12 right next to this "rare" cask and took a sip after I reviewed the RC.  Holy Crapballs was it flavorful!  yeah, the 12 was super dense and luscious in comparison.  I was trying so hard to get a read on the RC that my senses were being stretched.  By the time I got to the 12, blam, huge notes for that.  

The Rare Cask is one of the worst whiskies I've ever had because it is SO BORING and has barely any flavor to it.  I wasn't suprised that I didnt find it amazing, but I was surprised that is was so bad.  I thought Maybe it would match the 18; not even close. 

Whats rare about Macallan nowadays is a good bottling. Do not buy this, don't even try it in a bar.  Fuck this shit.  

50/100

monetary pricetag:  $260 usd

actual pricetag:  Macallan's Reputation. 



"What's rare about Macallan these days is a good bottling"

So true, and such a shame because they can produce good stuff

(Unlike Dalmore)



I wonder when people will catch on to all the Bullshit.

They claim to be running out of good sherry casks.  Well then pare down your line!  they keep coming up with all these different shit bottles, knock it off!  Concentrate on a real core line again and I'll return as customer.  Stop this Gold, Director, RC, M and all the other bullshit bottlings you're putting out and get back to respectability.  

How long does it take sherry to season a barrel?  Start seasoning your own damn barrels. 



I mean, take all of this with a grain of salt, but according to Edrington they season their casks for 6 months to 2 years in their own bodega. 

They claim shortage because there is, I guess. Macallan's super popular, and they only have so much whisky aging. 



Let me preface my comments with; I agree with everything you've said, baring the tasting notes as I haven't tried it. However my bias also says I think you're spot on with that too. 

Your review is an interesting inverse, in my opinion to the discussion here. I think when you get to a certain point after a lengthy time appreciating whisky (or other similar likes) that you start to rate things as less enjoyable based on ridiculous pricing and the often absurd marketing doublespeak. So in fact, while blind the consumable may be of average or better than average quality, the experience becomes below average due to those two factors noted above. 



I mentioned this and pricing has no baring on my reviews, never has. 

The lackluster whisky was amplified into the shitty category by trying it sidebyside with a so-so bottle of 12 year.  It was astonishing.  



OK, it's not that I don't believe you. Just something I think impacts my ratings from time to time, and a few others as well. 

Note: I'm_a_rep_for_Macallan_and_I_desperately_want_you_to_revise_your_review. 



How much did Edrington pay you to write that review?

lolz



My favorite was when he tried to convince me it was a balanced article, because he mentions 

one may argue that part of the reason they?ve held onto this status is because of their marketing prowess and ability to leverage their historical achievements.

I know that some of you are frustrated by what The Macallan represents in today?s whisky market. Luxury at a steep price.

Real hard-hitting reporting there.

Especially when the rest of the article contains passages like:

you?ve got to just go with The Macallan on this one and trust that they?re going to take care of you. 

Rare Cask truly embodies the modern luxury brand that The Macallan has become (fine juice with bling). 

I don?t think many can dispute that The Macallan is, and has been for quite some time, the quintessential luxury Scotch brand. 

But I?m sure he?d agree that The Macallan still knows how to produce some damn fine sherry-aged whisky. And from my side of the table, Rare Cask does a nice job of keeping that dream alive. 



well he doesnt want to be left out of the club!  

Let me just say, EVERY whisky is a luxury.  



Exactly. 

I like Compass Box; I frequently like their releases, their pricing (at least where I am) has been relatively reasonable, they are mostly transparent with what's in their bottles. But that blurb and their marketing of this malt annoys the shit out of me. Not to mention they miss the point of that painting. 

The reality is, these days we hear more and more commentators talking about ?luxury? whiskies, which are presumably whiskies that are either rare or expensive.

Then this...

On another level, a level we consider much more important, this limited release is about the liquid



I greatly disagree. Whisky is a grocery. But there are many brands who will put a lot of effort into selling you what they consider to be a superior product ? for a higher price, of course.

But we see the same thing in olive oil, salt, vinegar, beef... yet none of these are considered luxuries. Maybe a $100 steak is  a luxury, but not all steaks.

I'd be so upset if I didn't have good cheap Speyside to make Cumberland sauce, or a port to deglaze chicken and mushrooms... I need lunch.