Ardbeg 10 Year

Alcohol Content: 46%

Region: Islay, Scotland

Nose: Heavy on the peat, lower smoke then I thought there would be but it?s certainly present, brine saltiness with a bit of iodine and pine around the edges.

Taste: Opens up with a nice amount of peat but not as much as I would like (less a kick of peat and more just a showing of it). What it doesn?t deliver in aggressive peat, it more than makes up for in smokiness. As the peat subsides, malt notes are more prevalent and almost dominate the taste by the end (far more so then any other Islay I?ve had thus far). Vanilla oak notes are creeping in towards end of the initial taste, but very subtle.

Finish: The finish is very malty, a bit of peat lingers but not much. The malt character gives it almost a smoky/sweet aftertaste. There is saltiness on the tongue for sure, and the vanilla/oak profile comes through the longer the flavor stays in your mouth. Taste lasts about 2-3 minutes, with a present but only adequate mouth feel. Would have preferred it to be heavier or more oiler, whereas the mouth feel seems to be just more ?there? and not heavy in any regard.

Rating: 86/100

Summary: Overall pretty good, I feel it would benefit from weighing towards either more complex or more intense to really win me over. Laphroaig does it better IMO by being more intense and really concentrating on the peat character. There is good craftsmanship here, but not the profile or emphasis I want/like. I guess I just don?t appreciate the pure smoked malt character this pushes as its main element, if there was more intense peat, more complex flavors, or more sweet notes, I would have given it a higher score.



Laphroaig Cairdeas ? 2014 Edition

Alcohol Content: 51.2%

Region: Islay, Scotland

Nose: It has a complex nose with a lot going on all at once. There is an indescribable sweetness beneath the heavy smoke and charred element. Some grassy peat manages to sneak its way through as well. I really like it, but I wish the notes weren?t so ?all at once? and had more depth (not more elements) to it.

Taste:. Its highlights at first are almost a tart sweetness that mingles nicely with the smokiness that is found throughout. Often time?s sweet and smoke elements can conflict, but not here. The sweetness slowly subsides into nice peat and char elements. It has a subtle malt that arrives at the end, but is only a mild element to the taste. It?s really nice with a lot of complexity to it with the flavors evolving in a nice and clear manner.

Finish: The finish is as complex as the taste, with smoke but more vanilla and oak elements ringing through. There is still the tart sweetness on the roof of the mouth with peat and smoke lingering on the tongue. It has a good mouth feel that is a bit oily and a bit velvety. The taste lasts a good 4-5 minutes.

Rating: 89/100

Summary: This is really good, not something I would reach for everyday but it?s something that has a lot of complexity to it. I feel that it offers things that other Scotches don?t, its sweet elements aren?t quite the same as the other sweet Sherry that I?ve had and verge more on a bitter or tart sweetness you would find in small berries. It feels like something that I would have at breakfast, and really brings nice unique elements to the table. However, for someone hoping to find Laphroaig?s signature elements, they are not there. A light smoke, only a bit of peat (rather than a kick to the face) but the sweetness is done fantastically and in a very unique and satisfying way. I will be sad when this is gone and might have to go pick up another bottle!



Lagavulin 12 Year ? 2013 Edition

Alcohol Content: 55.2%

Region: Islay, Scotland

Nose: Smokey peat elements remain prevalent throughout the nose, but are never the primary aspect. A heavy and intense buttery malt dominates the aroma and is almost hard to work around when trying to identify other elements. At the end of the nose there are minor citrus elements, but you really have to be patient and look for them.

Taste: That peat on the nose is the first thing that hits you in the taste. It lingers for a brief moment and is quickly replaced by a heavy smoke and malt elements. The malt elements are deep and concentrated, and almost remind me of Sherry cask in the sense that it has an almost buttery toffee flavor to it (but lacks the raw fruit flavors). The elements can be difficult to analyze as they all hit you at once, and it doesn?t do a lot of ?graceful evolving?. It?s pretty much a freight train of flavors.

Finish: The finish is long lasting, the malt starts receding as the peat comes back into the picture. The smoke hangs around for pretty much the full duration of the finish. Minor vanilla and floral elements come through at the end, with possibly some spice elements. A good and almost ?tangy? mouth feel, with the taste lasting 4-5 minutes.

Rating: 88/100

Summary: It?s good, but it?s not as good or complex as I was expecting. It doesn?t really concentrate on the notes of Islay I like the most (heavy peat) nor is it as much of a smoke bomb as I felt it was made out to be. Really, it far more heavy on the sweet malt then I was expecting. This certainly is more of an intense/evolving Ardbeg and barely reminds me of Laphroaig. I will have to try the Lagavulin 16 and will go into it without bias but I truly thought this would be more complex than it was. However, this was certainly well crafted, and if I approach it not as ?do I like this Islay? but ?do I like this in general? it?s really good and well rounded. The finish for me really saved it. Personally, I would take Talisker 10 over this most days as I feel it?s elements are more defined and evolving rather than up front all at once while sharing a similar taste profile.



Glenfarclas 12 Year

Alcohol Content: 43%

Region: Speyside, Scotland

Nose: Mild apples, general sweetness, a bit of buttery toffee on the background with some deep brown sugar notes. The nose smells ?thick? but it?s not as pungent as other sherry scotches I?ve had. It certainly has a much sweeter tone then others as well.

Taste: A deep profile with a heavy oak notes throughout. Brown sugar, elements of maple syrup in it, a bit of hot cinnamon but not much, apples and grapes but only on the background. It?s very sweet and has almost a molasses taste to it at times. I get a bit of a burnt caramel taste to it as well, but not in a bad way. I have a hard time when sipping this believing that there was no sugar added as it?s so purely sweet.

Finish: Cinnamon, Sugar and Caramel hang around while the oak and fruit dissipate. A bit of almost cocoa comes through at the end, and the highlight is still it?s almost dessert like sweetness. Syrupy thick mouth feel, with a nice velvety texture on the tongue. Taste lasts 2-3 minutes.

Rating: 87/100

Summary: This is the most ?dessert? like Sherry cask that I have had, and it?s certainly not bad. Sweet with good fruit notes but not as complex as I would like. It never really evolved or changed from the ?sweet and thick? character from start to finish. It?s good, and if someone felt that caramel and brown sugar was more their desired notes then cinnamon and fruit, I would point them in this direction compared to the other Sherry (Macallan, Aberlour, etc.) I?ve had in the past. I would have it again if offered by someone else, but I think I would rather buy other offerings.



Talisker 10 Year

Alcohol Content: 45.8%

Region: Island, Scotland

Nose: It has a nice but muddied nose. The first hit comes off as iodine, but right afterwards there are notes of mild peat, smoke, and sweet malt. Seaweed, brine, salt are all there as well, it certainly has a lot to take in. I would say the nose does not do it justice personally as the notes get lost in one another easily.

Taste: Starts out with peaty iodine medicinal flavor that only lasts (by itself) for a split second, leading into a nice sweet malt and that reminds me of sherry cask Scotches. On the edges of the wave of sweetness there are dark fruits and nice cinnamon. It doesn?t stop there though; it evolves nicely into a peppery, saltiness. It has a wonderful complexity that evolves in the right ways, presenting a wide array of flavors without feeling too overdone.

Finish: Smoky pepper lingers into the aftertaste, with salt/brine on the tongue. However the flavor still manages to keep toned down fruit, cinnamon and sweet elements while not conflicting with the smoky notes. As the taste lingers, more and more elements of the initially subtle peat ring through. The taste lingers for about 2-3 minutes, nothing more than normal. The mouth feel is nice, a bit oily and velvety at the same time.  

Rating: 90/100

Summary: This commonly gets lumped into the Islay range (being an Island), but I don?t think it?s quite a direct replacement for any Islay, even shooting to be that. This is far better-rounded then the Islays I?ve tried, but as such lacks some of their overall fierceness. What it lacks in aggressive taste it makes up for with wonderful complexity and craftsmanship. I was happy to see the muddied nose didn?t carry into the taste. It has a generous helping of smoke, a nice saltiness too it, a pepper side that almost reminds me of Rye whisky, a tinge of peat at the start and finish, but also a nice richness involving fruit elements which are more common to Sherry casks. This is a Scotch I would dedicate a whole night too, and has the ability to satisfy all of my cravings in one go. The price is higher than some of its competition, but I think it?s well justified.



McClelland?s Islay

Alcohol Content: 40%

Region: Islay, Scotland

Nose: Very light nose with few elements there. A tad bit of peat, a tad bit of smoke. Not much too really pick up on.

Taste: Feels like the staples of an Islay Scotch with absolutely no depth to them. There is peat, but it?s flat. The same goes for the smoke. Nothing really that captures you in any real sense. Just upfront flavor profiles that are generic and expect for an Islay at the most basic level.

Finish: Almost none to speak off. It hangs around for a minute, with no mouth feel. What flavors it does have after the initial taste don?t develop or change from the first flavor profile. It is very basic in its elements of taste. No mouth feel, taste lasts 1-2 minutes (being generous).

Rating: 68/100

Summary: If this wasn?t so cheap the rating would have been far worse. For someone looking to get the ?bare essentials? of what a specific Scotch is supposed to taste like it like it would suffice. However, it doesn?t really compare to the ?real Scotches? that have much more depth and maturity in their taste and I would never wish it upon someone to start with one of these just to get the profile down.



Right off the bat, the nose hit me in a very wonderful way; I just couldn't resist pouring a little extra. I took a sip immediately after pouring - it was very sour. After leaving the glass out for 5 minutes, it actually became quite enjoyable.

McClelland's Single Malt Islay

Islay; 40%

Nose: Light smokiness. [Islay] Peat. Medicinal undertones. Cereals. More iodine the longer I smell.

Tongue: Sweet honey. Light peat. Light smokiness. Very subdued. Medicine. Very light saltiness. Weird sourness that shouldn't be there.

Finish: More smoke - felt more appropriate. Honey. Cereal. Wheat. Like a smoky Belgian Ale.

Score: 84.

With Water,  Much more iodine on the nose, and the tongue and finish pretty much disappear. Avoid adding water. This is already 40% and subdued, extra water (I only added ~20%) really cripples this.

I remember I liked Bowmore 12 when I had it, but I don't remember what it tasted like. What I do remember is more smokiness and a sweet wheat. I haven't had Bowmore Legend, but I've heard plenty of horror stories. This is actually quite good for what it is. Surprisingly good. Given that I've just opened the bottle; however, this might worsen (or still improve) the longer I go through it.
A solidly enjoyable Scotch that, for $22, is right on the money. This could benefit greatly from an extra 3-6%.

On the back, there is a handy tasting guide. It maintains that there are wood cinders, smoke, and subtle citrus on the nose, sea salt, burnt oak chips, and vanilla on the tongue, and sweet smoke with a hint of iodine on the finish. I felt there was much less wood, smoke, or vanilla (read: no wood or vanilla) than the notes suggested.

Oh, and thanks to /u/reddbdb for giving me the incentive to review this.



You can read the full, rather scathing review, on my website Sublime Imbibing here

Appearance: Light gold. Clear. Obviously coloured (NAS), but nothing apparently wrong.

Nose: Again, nothing sinister is readily apparent. Whiffs of iodine and peat smoke. A kind of weird cough syrup hint though, the only evidence of the scotch tragedy to come.

Taste: This is where everything falls apart. Sure, it's just about the cheapest Single Malt you can buy, but its probably too bad to do so. It tastes like iodine tapped you on the shoulder, you turned around and it punched you in the face. It tastes like someone set your grandmas medicine cabinet on fire and you're huffing the fumes. It's just WAAAY too much. And the smoke ceases to be peaty at all, almost rendering as burning plastic. Just awful stuff.

Finish: Mercifully brief, but that cough syrup kind of thick sweetness does tend to stick around for a while.

30/100. One of the least pleasurable scotch experiences I've ever had. Can anyone recommend a single malt in a similar price range that's a bit better?



Feeling insulted seems a bit over the top. Nothing wrong with people liking different kinds of whiskies. 

Even better if you throw your own review up! It's great to see differing opinions.



I suspected that :). 

You don't need to get too crazy when reviewing. I don't really describe whisky in the very specific "lemon cake served at grandmas old cabin" way. There is also some help for reviewing in the sidebar!



McClelland's Islay Single Malt, Islay 40% ABV - $45 CAD

Colour: straight up apple juice amber

Nose: Dried fruit, glue, orange rind, cloves and brine. There's something offputting about this combination.

Taste: Young and briny-bitter. There's some must, coal ash and a squeeze of citrus. I get neither the peat nor smoke I love from Islays. I do notice a bit of worn leather and light iodine.

Finish:  Longer than I'd like. It stays salty and bitter, but some peat does finally shine through. There's a tiny hint of regret on the backend.

59/100

This was not a great tasting. I've had the McClelland's speyside, and it wasn't bad, but this needs some aging in a better cask. I dunno if it's just my bottle, but I'm not impressed.



I'm surprised you didn't taste any smoke. It's fairly prominent. Drink this side-by-side with any sherried Speyside or Highland malt and you won't be able to miss it.

But yeah, it's a fairly basic everyday drinker. This was one of the first whiskies I bought and while I found it enjoyable at the time, having gone back to it after drinking better stuff I now find it underwhelming.

I don't think it's particularly bad for the price, it's just that I figure life is too short to be buying $40 whiskies at all.



Canadians are often recommended T? Bheag as another best-value whisky under $40, but having bought a bottle I can say I enjoy it less than the McClelland's. Really insipid stuff.

I honestly don't know what else is out there. I think the best quality-price ratio in Canada right now is Talisker 10 for ~$75 a bottle.



Was at my uncle's yesterday and he's one to knock back a few cheaper scotches with ice.  He had a couple of these lying around so I figured I'd give them a review.  A lot of posters are on a tight budget and want something that won't hurt the wallet much, and these are often a good option.

McClelland's bottles young versions of a few popular malts and sells them at discounted prices.  Their Highland malt is a Glen Garioch, their Lowland is an Auchentoshan, and their Islay is a Bowmore.  I'm uncertain of the Speyside.

Speyside:

ABV: 40%

Color:  Amber +1 although this is most likely filled with caramel.

Nose:  Dried fruits and light citrus with a hint of buttery vanilla.  Sherry and a cheap sweet wine.  Nothing really sticks out as interesting here, although the nose is not terribly off-putting.  A touch of acetone in there, this one seems quite fresh.  Very reserved nose and not very powerful.

Taste:  Buttery sherry and a hint of vanilla which fades to a citrusy note.  A bit of a gluey note in there at the peak.

Finish:  Short and uninteresting.  The fruit and citrus fades to bitter alcohol.  Very abrasive for such a weak whisky.  Water doesn't seem to help much.

Final notes:  Very young and fresh.  The spirit really seems to dominate this whisky and the low ABV doesn't seem to counteract the bitterness there.  I'm a fan of sherried scotches and I didn't terribly dislike this but the finish was a bit off-putting.  Still a decent option for a budget and the price gives it a few extra points.

Final Score:  79/100

Islay:

ABV: 40%

Color:  Amber.  Again probably a touch of caramel in there.

Nose:  Peat, vanilla, overcooked green vegetables, particularly green beans and asparagus, seaweed, and some salt air/brine

Taste:  Some smokey peat (although subtle), vanilla, glue, stale wheat crackers, overcooked green beans/asparagus again.

Finish:  Very short, a bit bitter, and practically nonexistant.  The smoke doesn't linger and is not terribly powerful, and there's really nothing else to report in there.

Final Notes:  This was a pretty lame Islay.  The dry seaweed and vegetable-like notes that I get out of Laphroigs seemed bastardized here.  No lingering smoke either.  Still drinkable, but not great.  Again, price gives this one a few extra points.  I suppose Islay malts aren't really one meant for a cheap bottle.

Final Score:  75/100

McClelland's is a decent cheap option if you are really tight on the budget.  The Speyside wasn't bad I thought, but the Islay wasn't one I'd buy for myself.  I haven't had a normal bottling of Bowmore but based on what I've heard and after tasting this young one it's pretty far down on my to-buy list.

Went over a friends later and finished my bottle of Laphroig QC, so don't worry I was redeemed!



Agreed.  I figured I needed to review a few 'poor' whiskys so I could better benchmark how I score them.  They would have to be borderline undrinkable to score much below 75 on my scale I'm afraid.

I'll admit that the Speyside was decent, but was just far too young.



I should clarify.  What I meant was that based on how I've been scoring, I couldn't justify leaving these too many points down.  There just isn't a big enough gap in my mind.  A whisky from a ruined cask would score below 70 points, but it would take a whisky that I have a hard time drinking to score in the low 70s.  I won't consider these malts 'interesting' like your typical single malt which tend to be quite compelling.  Below 80 is something I wouldn't drink as 'hobby-grade', but they are still something that I can drink without feeling offended.

All reviewers review on their own scale, this is just how it fits well in my mind.  I will do something to better clarify what my scores mean for my next review for sure.



Whisky Network Review #77

McClelland's produces a series of regional "mystery malts" (aka "bastard malts"), where the source distillery for each single malt expression is not identified. McClelland?s was originally a Glasgow-based whisky blending and export firm, until it was purchased in 1970 by what was to eventually become known today as Morrison Bowmore Distillers. 

Morrison Bowmore owns three malt distilleries ? the Lowland Auchentoshan, the Highland Glen Garioch, and Isle of Islay?s Bowmore. They sell a wide range of official bottlings of single malts from these distilleries. But Morrison Bowmore has long used the McClelland?s brand for unspecified single malt bottlings of ?Lowland?, ?Highland?, and ?Islay? regional whiskies.  Care to make any guesses as to where they are likely sourcing the barrels for those three regions? ;) Since 1999, they have also been producing a ?Speyside? expression (source of barrels unknown).

All the McClelland?s regional single malt whiskies sell for $45 CAD at the LCBO ? whereas the entry-level NAS expressions for these three distilleries all start at $60 CAD. They are all bottled at 40% ABV.  I had the chance to sample the McClelland?s Islay Single Malt recently at a bar. Here is what I found in the glass:

Nose: Wow, that?s more potent than I expected ? heavy medicinal peat, with lots of salty seaweed. Very strong coastal Islay presence, with greater complexity than your typical entry-level Bowmore (with its typically simple smoke). Has a decaying vegetative character, with a touch of iodine. Unfortunately, with that also comes some unusual funky notes, like old sweats socks. Beyond that (and it takes a while to get past that), some lemony spirit asserts itself, along with some sweet light caramel and vanilla. A bit of ethanol burn. While young, this is actually a surprisingly promising start.

Palate: Ok, where did it go?  After that heavy olfactory assault, it just seems to disappear in the mouth. Lightly sweet, with standard caramel and vanilla. Some kind of vague fruitiness, but artificial. Nutty (peanuts). Extremely watery mouthfeel, hard to believe this is even 40% ABV. All the smell of Islay and none of the flavour ? I don?t think I?ve ever experienced a single malt evaporating so quickly in the mouth.

Finish: Fairly short (although that?s not necessarily a bad thing here). Touch of vegetal character comes back, with that funk in particular. Smoke lingers, but then so does the funk. Sweet vanilla lasts to the end.

I actually spent a fair amount of time nosing this one, as I was taken aback by its complexity. Perhaps I had unfairly misjudged these entry-level mystery malts, I thought.  But the first sip made it clear why this falls into the category it does ? there is really not much here. I suspect Morrison Bowmore is likely using McClelland?s as a dumping ground for poor quality barrels they can?t otherwise offload.  In my view, I think you are best sticking with the entry level age-statement expressions from the underlying distilleries. 

Score: 75

Personal lifetime scoring stats:  Mean score:  85.5, Standard Deviation: 4.6, Min score: 68, Max score: 96, Number scored: 181

WhiskyAnalysis Meta-Critic Database for McClelland?s Islay Single Malt: 7.94 ? 0.64 on 8 reviews ($$)



WhiskyAnalysis Meta-Critic Database for McClelland?s Islay Single Malt: 7.94 ? 0.64 on 8 reviews ($$)

Oh wow, thank you for an interesting read and page (and me being pretty unproductive for about an hour ;))! That reminds me I should really catch up with putting my reviews in archive (again).
I have to admit, that I didn't fully understand everything but it was still very interesting (I skipped the parts where it got to mathematical), I remember reading the discussions when you initially started to add Scotchit scores...guess I'm scotchit-old
I'm curious am I in the pool of scotchit reviewers you use for the database? And if so, how do I do compared to the expert panel or the meta-critic? If that is an easy task, I guess (/hope) it's just a few clicks for someone with your background - if not, then please ignore me :P
Anyway, what lead me here was that I reviewed a few "undisclosed Islays" and found that they tend to have certain parts where they match the Islay profile pretty good and other parts that don't or have some flaws hence the barrels ended up in an "undisclosed" bottle/brand.



You are indeed in my Reddit reviewer database (now ~35 members strong).  And it is just a few mouse clicks away. ;)  

Basically, your scoring pattern fits the criteria of established reviews described on my site (see this page in particular, or this more recent post on scoring ranges).  And as you suspected, you correlate best with the "scotchit-old" reviewers. I'll send you some further details by pm.  

Good point about the "undisclosed Islays".  I've typically avoided these to date (given the poor reviews, and life being short and all). But I found myself in a bar with an absolutely terrible selection of low-end whiskies, so I figured what the hell ... take one for the team! ;)



It's $20 around here which is the same as Red Label, Grouse, Teachers, etc.

I think it beats all the cheapo blends in that price range. Hamilton's Islay Blended Malt is the best cheapo bottle I've found though.



Yep, it's junk.

Well, it's probably wildly variable, given our guesses of how it's made. But whenever I've had it, it's junk. 60/100.



I can't say I'm a connoisseur by this boards standard, but I have been around the block once or twice.

McClelland's is my go to brand, ever since GQ included it in a list of ways to "Live Large in a Recession". I know it may be impolitic to say, but if you are looking for an everyday Scotch that wont break the bank, I haven't tasted a better $20/bottle brand. 

3 weeks ago I had a tasting with my friends. I think an interesting observation is that of the people that enjoyed McClelland's Islay, all were occasional/regular cigar smokers. They liked the smokey flavors. Of the people who were not cigar smokers, they still noted that it was distinctively flavored but were not accustomed to the enjoying the taste of smoke in their mouth. Additionally it was a number of peoples first time so their taste hasn't developed.

The other observation is that Cutty Sark is not fit for human consumption. I knew that already, but it was a junior member that brought the bottle.



Color: Pale Gold/Amber

Nose: Peat, Dirt, Light Smoke, Leather and Tobacco. Young Oak, Brine and harsh Alcohol are there as well. A faint hint of Chocolate, Lemon and Dried Fruits. As so often, the Nose is the (slightly) better part of this Whisky. The smell reminds you of a young Bowmore but without the sweet tones that make most Islay whiskies such delicious spirits.

Taste: Medicinal, Metallic, Hot Pepper, Alcohol, Rough Green Wood, Earth, bit of Sugar. Misses Fruit and sweet Malt. Unbalanced and not overly pleasant.

Finish: Hot bite on the tongue, Bitter and Dry. Bitter Dirt/Earth and Wet Leather remain for quite a while. Not very pleasant.

I added a few drops of water and the Nose becomes milder. The Smoke and Leather retreat. The Peat remains with hints of white Chocolate. The palate also benefits somewhat because the Pepper and Alcohol are watered down. The Finish is less hot. This Malt accepts some water but the overall impression on the Palate remains rather unpleasant.

Rating: 72 (out of 100)
Nose 19 ? Taste 18 ? Finish 17? Overall 18

General Remarks: A McClelland?s Distillery does not exist. It?s a series of 5 Single Malt Whiskies from the main Scottish production areas. Four of them, the Highland, the Lowland, the Speyside and the Islay are NAS or Non-Age Specified. In 2008, a Speyside 12 Years was added. McClelland?s Parent company is Morrison Bowmore Distilleries (Suntory Group). They are the owners of Auchentoshan (Lowland), Bowmore (Islay) and Glen Garioch (Highland), so it is safe to say that this expression was distilled at Bowmore. McClelland?s main markets are the USA, Canada, Japan and France.

Drinking Experience Neat: Average

Conclusion: I think the makers of this Blend have focused too much on the Peat, Dirt and Ashes part of the Islay characteristics. There are no sweet Fruity and/or Sherry tones to be found and because of that this Single Malt is not well balanced. The young Alcohol gives an unwanted bite on the Finish. This Single Malt is really cheap at around US$ 25. Unfortunately, half the price means that you also get only half of an Islay. And that?s not good enough for me!



heh,
the most vile stuff i ever had in my glass was Bell's Special Reserve
link

that stuff is just undrinkable and ruined a glass of coke i poured it into



I believe McClelland's Islay is a young (probably 5-8YO) Bowmore. McClellands is essentially Suntory's cheap line of Single Malts and I've yet to have one I liked in the least. 

Islay 58/100, 
Lowland 58/100
Speyside 48/100
Highland 55/100

I'm actually rather proud of my McClelland Speyside review.



McClellands Islay

Thanks to /u/slackerdude for the swap.  McClellands Islay.  We know it's Bowmore but still it's technically a bastard bottle.  Other McClellands I've tried have been underwhelming, but you know... science and stuff.

Colour: it's McClellands, why even look.

Nose: Mint, minerals, multi-vitamin pills, flowers, honey, mild peat smoke, vinegar.

Palate: honey, vanilla, smoke, peat, cardboard, alcohol.

Finish: Nearly absent, but sweet caramel, smoke, and peat are there, mild acidic canned tomatoes.

Better than I expected, better than the Speyside and Highland McClellands I've tried.  I wouldn't turn down a glass.  

74/100

Edit:  I've changed my score on this several times as I revisit it.  I'm settling on a 74.  Far higher than I would've imagined I'd give a McClellands.



this is by far the most affordable single malt in my area- and it's one of the first few bottles I ever bought.  so I've drank a lot of it.  it's a great introduction to Islay flavors, and not a bad everyday drinker or something to fill up your fancy crystal decanter with.  but not a whole lot more than that.  I'm going to rotate it out with something else inexpensive soon, getting a little sick of it.

black bottle is about the same price in my area, and very similar.

if nothing else, it helps one appreciate Ardbeg, Laphroaig, etc :)



Honestly, I see a lot of hate for this scotch on here but I really enjoyed it. I am very new to scotch but this is the only bottle I bought twice. It's also the only one I would describe as peaty so I think I know what direction to head in for my tastes. 

Thanks for a fair review!



ABV: 40%

Age: NAS

Price: $30

Bottler: Morrison Bowmore 

Eye: 
Old straw

Nose:
An ambiguous sweetness comes up first followed by some smoked meat, peat and lots of vanilla. A light tropical fruit (banana heavy), a bit of melon, smoked fish and brine. Little hints of iodine, dried fruit, turmeric, char and a fairly strong alcohol burn give this an aroma that has promise, but gets beat down by the stronger funky notes.

Palate:
All malt and no bite. Some light notes of vanilla, banana heavy tropical fruit, coconut, a little char, a little peat, a little smoke and a weird funk. The nose is vastly more complex than the palate with this whisky and that absence makes it feel like something is missing.

Finish:
A light nutty character with some malt, banana, Nilla Wafers and weird funk. It?s mercifully short.

Balance, Body & Feel:
Everything feels off; like the whole thing is working against itself. The light and watery body makes it feel lifeless and simplistic giving it the texture of a ball bearing rolling around a track.

Score:
75/100

Overall:
The nose is surprisingly agressive and comes off like a complex argument. The palate on the other hand is remarkably dead in comparison which leaves the finish to be the best part of this whisky and that?s not saying much. I?m convinced that Morrison Bowmore uses the McClelland brand as a dumping ground for undesirable barrels which they then overcharge for. 



Thanks to /u/shaillur for this sample. Maybe.

Hey, I've done a rough world whisky and a rough bourbon. Maybe it's time to do what I expect will be a rough Scotch?

Well, that's not to fair. I mean, sure McClelland Islay is owned by Morrison Bowmore distillers, and there's no such thing as a McClelland distillery, and they just source it from the distillers they own.

And so what that it's the only Scotch below $50 in Ontario, aka the home of the new prohibition, where prices don't dip that low from the evil bowels of Hell that is the Scotch producers. Or at least that's what the LCBO would have you believe.

Sure, those could point to a scary situation. Or the fact that it's NAS, save for a time when the Speyside had a 12 year age statement on it.

Okay, yeah, that's all quite frightening. And I'm not the biggest fan of Bowmore when it's called Bowmore, least of all when it's hidden behind an NAS.

But... at least it isn't flavoured. So that's something. Right?

Fuck it, let's see if this surprises me.

Price: $44.95 (CAD) at the LCBO

Region: Islay

Abv: 40.2%

Colour: 5Y 8/8

Nose: Smoke, old cinnamon, raw potato, earth

Light nose. Very light. Takes a long time to pick up different notes. There's smoke. Mostly smoke. It's mainly smoke.

Don't worry though, a little spice pokes through with some earth. It's not pleasant, but at least it's not strong.

Taste: Black pepper, peat, cumin, old graham crackers, sugar, dust

Initially has a very Islay flavour. The earth, the smoke, and the heat. Nice amount.

Given time this goes to a stale sweet flavour, raw sugar, and a bunch of dust. Nothing lasts forever I guess.

Finish: Smoke, old anise candies, salt, malted milk, stale peanuts

This goes between tastes I do like to stale flavours to raw, simple flavours to flavours that seem like they are pretending to be there to... fucked.

It's not bad. But there's stuff I don't like.

Conclusion: If you want to pretend to drink Scotch but don't have the scratch, this is for you. It's barely there. I don't know, maybe it's better to use it for mixing when you want a splash of smoke. I'm not a fan.

Don't get me wrong, this has elements that I'd love to see acted upon. There's a chance this could have been good. But not here. It's cheap, and cheap for a reason. Not good. Avoid.

38/100

Scotch review #535, Islay review #119, Whisky Network review #889

Link to my website with all my reviews



I gave Dewars White Label a 66/100. I gave the 1970s version a 72/100.

Granted I wasn't on a plane.

So that's how bad this one was.



Wow. I'm clearly going to have try this fine spirit. For science, you know.

I have a strange relationship with Dewars White Label... I always end up ordering it on a plane, and I always end up regretting it. Badly.



There are plenty of scotches under $50 at lcbo! This is the only single malt however. 

I mean, islay mist is a much better islay experience for $30ish



My Current Whisky Network Average =     77.16

Standard Deviation =    10.14

Skewness =  -2.69354

Kurtosis =  10.82482

Median =    79

IQR =   9

Max =   92

Min =   10