Mortlach 15 - Gordon & MacPhail, 43% abv

Nose: Sulphur, spent fireworks, faint sherry, currant/raisin fruit, vanilla pastry, faint croissant. The sulphur dominates, and has only got stronger over time since opening the bottle, to the point that I dread nosing it.

Taste: Sulphur, vegetal pepperyness, slight spice, faint vanilla. 

Mouthfeel: Pretty thin, not much alcohol burn, very slightly drying, but not very much

Finish: Metallic sherry, watery (like the taste of heavily watered down whisky, in a bad way, this tastes like it's <20%). Eventually it tastes metallic and mineral-y like soil.

Score: 1/100

The more astute may have noticed I never mentioned any oak/wood notes, and that's because they weren't any. I'm sure the weak spice and vanilla are from the cask, but frankly this must have been aged in poor quality, over-used wood, because after 15 years, you really ought to be able to taste it more. Heck if I poured some water on a plank right now, and drank it, I'd probably taste more wood.
On Master of malt, the blurb claims this was "aged in first fill and refill sherry casks", so that'd be 1 first fill sherry cask, and 200 5th-fill casks.
If you ask me, someone pulled a fast one on G&M with whatever casks they sold them for this.

The sulphur on the nose is really hard to get around. It's extremely unpleasant, and at times almost smells like burning snot. Total deal breaker. This is why I scored this 1/100, the same as I would score a whisky that someone had spilled detergent in.

I didn't really want to give this a score at all, because it's really so messed up that the score doesn't really reflect the smell/taste, it just reflects that I think mistakes were made in the production of this whisky, it's ruined, and you shouldn't buy it. The only reason it gets 1 is because I suppose it's better than drinking beer, but maybe not.



1, really?  So you would rate JW Red higher?

Did you buy this bottle or was it sampled?  Bar?



I have the 35cl bottle, in the photo I posted.
http://www.masterofmalt.com/whiskies/mortlach-15-year-old-35cl-whisky/
interestingly a couple of people on there, in the reviews for the full size bottle, noted similarly that the nose was sulphury and off.

I probably would rate JW red higher yes.

Maybe my bottle is bad, I dunno, but it really is unpalatable to me.



It sounds like to me that 2 things happened.

It sounds like to me you may have got sulfured from the sherry butt. I had a similar experience from some Glenmorangies that I had.  When it's bad, its really bad.  This is the first time I have heard this from and independent bottler so that is not great news.

Did you buy from a normal place you go to?  Far fetched but, but is there is no chance that you got a counterfeit?

Either way I would try to return it or contact Gordon and MacPhail.    I have had to sampling events with G&M, they seem like good people and should take care of you.



Man oh man... glad I didn't pick up this bottle.  

I'm always hesitant to purchase a non boxed/tubed whisky in a clear bottle.  Who knows how long it's been exposed to that UV light.



43% ABV, Speyside, $100 CAD

This is the last of my birthday IB flight. Considering my birthday was almost a year ago now, I figure it's a good time to final post the review. This was a big hit with my friends; although the Laphroaig 11 Hogshead was my fave, this was theirs.

Colour: Pale Amber

Nose: Honey, lemon, Graham

Palate: kind of floral, more graham, a citrus sweetness with a slight acidic touch, 

Finish: smooth and long, it's mellow with sweet honeysuckle and blood orange, a twist of lemon with some nutmeg

Notes: would definitely buy again

91/100



If you can still find Mortlach 16 flora and fauna, its easily twice as good. Whole heartedly recommend.

Good review



Mortlach 15 Gordon & MacPhail

Nose-restrained sherry fruits, red jam fruit, butter, hint of salt, hint of honey

Palate-salted ham/prosciutto  arrival, sweetens up with the red jam fruit and sherry notes. Some caramel, honey. 

Finish-the salted ham comes back and mingles with the jam & sherry notes. Maybe medium in length. 

Overall-solid. I was glad I liked this after I opened it because the reviews I've seen are all over the place-wide range of scores and a wide range of experiences. It seems like some batches of this turn out sour with sulphur and some are really good. 

88/100



Mortlach 15 Gordon & MacPhail

Color: Reddish Amber

Nose: Fruity, woody, vanilla. Simple, slightly old smelling, yet pretty good. (My palate might also be overdoing it over here)

Palate: Vanilla, honey, slight salt note, lemongrass? decent body.

Finish: Lingering, oak and leather. Some spice notes as well. There's an interesting note at the end that I can't quite place. Help me out if you've had this and have some idea.

Price: $??? (California)

Rating: 84/100

43% ABV

Continuing on my vacation dramming, this Mortlach 15 was another distillery that I had been interested in trying for a few years.  Found this little sampling, and felt compelled to pick it up.  I'll be honest, I'd never seen an IB sample in the states (outside of something like Master of Malt) so I was surprised to see it on the shelf.  This a fairly complex whisky, and it seems to change course a few times as you drink it.  I'm honestly not quite sure what to make of it, I think I would like to have another dram, but not sure if I would actually want a bottle.  Honestly, if I had a bottle of it, I would save it for when other whisky aficionados come over and get them to try to see what they think.  Also, I've been battling a little bit of a sore throat, so if anything in here seems off, I'm going to blame it on that.  Sick or not, the drams must go on!



Where did you get this mini?! You picked it up in California... but where?? I must know!

A shame it's okay, but at this point I kind of expect Mortlach to be so.



Mortlach 15 (Gordon and Macphail), 43% ABV, Speyside

Nose -  sweet musty vanilla, cherry preserves, warm apples and leather, spiked christmas cake, light earthiness

Taste -   salty candied lemons, fresh melon salad, oaky vanilla and spice, beeswax, light sherry

Finish - dank earth, cherry cough syrup

Overall - 

The nose is quite sweet, with a nice warm profile; an interesting nose for sure.The palate is rich and sweet - syrupy with medium thickness.  There's lots of fruits playing on the palate, becoming more toasty than the nose.  This finishes with a weird mushroomy and cherry cough syrup taste, but it's not unpleasant; strange, but enjoyable.

85/100



Region: Speyside - 
ABV: 40%

Colour: Full (Dark) Gold

Nose: Wow! This is completely different from everything I have nosed so far. It's a combination of an old book shop and a butchery. Sounds strange? Well my first impressions are Leather, Musty Old Books and Raw Beef. After a while I get Rum soaked Fruitcake with lots of Raisins and Sultanas, Oak, Vanilla, Floral Tones, Peat Smoke and Sugared Orange Zests.

Taste: Unexpected thin delivery. Once again I must state that this whisky should have been bottled at at least 46% ABV. The Leather, Raw Beef and Old Books of the Nose are confirmed, joined by Oak, White Pepper and Dried Fruits. A tad of Salt. Still, this was rather disappointing after the Nose.

Finish: Middle Long and Dry with Raw Beef, White Pepper, Orange Zest, Oak, Peat, a touch of Salt, Leather and Cigar Ash. The latter stays with you for a couple of minutes.

I added a couple of drops of water and the Nose gives away some extras in the form of Malt and Butter. However the intensity of the Nose is gone I'm afraid. Palate and Finish don't really benefit from the additional Water as well. So better nose and sip this one neat. 

Rating:  86 

Nose: 22  - Taste:  21 - Finish: 21.5  - Overall: 21.5

General Remarks: The Mortlach Distillery was founded in 1823 and was the first of seven distilleries that were built in and around Dufftown. Today it is part of the Diageo Group. Mortlach distills the spirit 2,5 times. As a result most Mortlach whiskies are complex and age well. The sample I'm tasting today is not the newly released 15 years Mortlach currently marketed by Gordon & MacPhail (Bottle pictured above). This sample comes from a batch distilled around 1975, probably bottled around 1990. Mortlach Single Malts are only available through Independent Bottlers like Gordon & MacPhail. The reason is that Mortlach is a key component of many Johnnie Walker Blends, including Black Label. 
I got this sample from a friend in Holland who obtained it from Rare Whisky Site, an on line whisky shop operating from the Netherlands. I'm not sure if it's still available and at what price.

Drinking Experience Neat: Good

Conclusion: This is my first direct encounter with a Single Malt from the Mortlach Distillery and I must say I'm impressed. A very interesting Nose with an unmistakable smell of Raw Beef. It's like the Pepper in Talisker. Once you have tasted it, it's very unlikely you will forget the experience. Raw Meat, Old Books with a cover of Leather and Rum-Raisin Fruitcake are the main flavours of the Nose. Remarkable stuff. Unfortunately the Palate can't deliver everything the Nose promises and a big part is due to the fact that this dram was bottled at only 40% ABV. That's good enough for Johnnie Walker Red but not for Mortlach 15 for crying out loud! The Finish reconquers a bit of the lost ground and the Cigar Ash is a nice final touch. But once again I'm confronted with a whisky that could have been great but in the end is "merely" good. There should be a law that Single Malts should have a minimum ABV of 46%. As it is, I'm really looking forward to discover more about this distillery. Johnnie Walker Black Label has always been one of my favourite Blends. I never knew it contained a significant amount of Mortlach. But now I do and things start falling into place!



Mortlach 15 Gordon & MacPhail, 43% ABV

Sample courtesy of thetrumpetplayer. He posted a less than favourable review of this a while ago, and I asked if I could have the rest of the sample. You know, for shits and giggles.

Nose: Briny yet sweet. Leather, tobacco smoke and musty wood. Maraschino cherries and juicy sultanas with a side of earthy mushrooms. Slightly waxy and sulphurous.

Taste: Medium bodied and very smooth. Salted butter and green peppercorns. Green olives and preserved lemon. Fried tomatoes with lots of salt. A pinch of brown sugar and some honey.

Finish: Earthy, vegetal and leathery. Salted nuts and dried herbs. A touch of pepper and some very faint medicinal notes. Medium to long and weird.

I found this to have a similar flavour profile to the Bunnahabhain 12, but I like this one better. It also reminded me of the Tobermory 15, but nowhere as good. 

The nose had a musty, smoky and sweet fruitiness that I found quite interesting, but the taste and finish are quite savoury. A strange one, but I enjoyed it.

Side note: I drank some water after this dram and the water tasted very sweet. Huh.

82/100



Orphan Review #2 ? see below for more info. Blind sample tasting, courtesy of /u/Sberto, thank you! This was a mystery sample, so ignore the info on the stock photo. The notes below were taken before I knew what was in the pour.

?

Gordon and Macphail Mortlach 15yr

?

Holy shit, I got the region right? I heard some describe Mortlach as a ?meaty? scotch, and I don?t get that at all. To me it seems very similar to Glenfiddich 15 ? and they are both Speyside drams. I like the Mortlach better, the flavors are in better balance.

When I was doing blind reviews, it took me a while to re-taste any given dram, and thus I had to save notes to an interim file. After moving away from that process, I stopped using the interim file and forgot all about these write-ups. This is the second of these reviews. I?m not changing anything unless I still have some of the sample left (yep, there?s a few of them!), and so the score is not indicative of what I would give that same whiskey today, not only due to the change in my palate, but also due to the way I?ve adapted my scoring. 

If I recall correctly, this pour would probably get an 82 using my current metrics, and that?s without making any adjustments for change in palate.



Curious. I was expecting your Orphan Review to be a happy accident caused by inadvertently cut & pasting a 4 month old review into a 17 month old review thereby creating a unique review and a superb marketing gimmick to sell more reviews. 

I actually just opened a bottle of this last week and got lots of salted ham from it which I'm counting as the "meaty" mortlach profile. Nice review. 



Man, where were you when I was trying to come up with a witty intro!? I'm going to steal that for my next orphan review!

As for the whisky, I didn't get any ham at all, sadly. What you're describing is what I hoped for :(



Don't throw the baby out with the bathwater?

I think I prefer GF if for no other reason than price and availability. My review of the Fiddich is very dated so I'm not sure how is compare the two today.



Hi everyone,

Who doesn?t love a meaty Mortlach?

Well, the owners apparently. They discontinued the 16yo from Sherry casks and replaced it with some crazy over priced whisky that?s had everyone reeling ever since. Oh, well. Luckily, Mortlach is still available with a lot of independent bottlers. Even some of their prices have started creeping up but thankfully not stratospherically. 

Anyway, these first two I tasted a Bristol Whisky Lounge in 2014 and the last I was given a taste of out of the blue by a customer. Because of that, the notes are pretty shorthand. 

?

Mortlach Rare Old 43.4%

Colour: E150a

Body: Light

Nose: Average sweet Speyside, very underwhelming with light ginger, cake and a touch of sherry.

Taste: Light, ginger snaps, ginger syrup, very light sherry.

Finish: Short length. Very soft with a tiny bit of spice.

Everything an NAS should be: Expensive, in a cologne bottle, in a smaller 50cl bottle and seriously disappointing for what we know can come from this distillery. Well played Diageo.

63/100

?

Mortlach 15 Gordan & Macphail 43%

Colour: Gold

Body: Medium

Nose: Similar to the Rare Old in ways. A classic Speyside nose, balanced sweetness, fragrantly fruity, slightly perfumed, red apple.

Taste: Mellow and quite soft, building oak, but with a balanced sweetness, red apple again.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Mellow and soft still with the oak fading and a little spice.

Better but still not hugely complex. Very pleasant whisky though. 

72/100

?

Mortlach 1989 Mackillop's Choice 54.9%

Colour: Gold

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Classic Speyside aromas again, no meaty or sulphury flavours but some sherry influence and spicey ginger.

Taste: Big, meaty, swelling Sherry sweetness- Raisin but more juicy and meaty- Apricot and peach flesh. Ginger too, but not that spicy and oaky.

Finish: Short/Medium length. Soft sherry and some red apple sweetness.

Bottled 2012, 22yo. Really think Mortlach does better with the Sherry influence dialled up and at cask strength. Without it, it flounders. 

82/100

?

Thanks for reading!

Scotch Reviews #324-#326

Whisky Network Reviews #358-#360



Everything an NAS should be: Expensive, in a cologne bottle, in a smaller 50cl bottle and seriously disappointing for what we know can come from this distillery. Well played Diageo.

All that's missing is an endorsement by a has-been sports star who'd probably only ever quaffed vodka and light beer before. 



Agreed on your thoughts. Mortlach sings in sherry, high proof and in that 15-20yo range. One of my favorite distilleries. 

Shame diageo is ruining it.



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.com/mortlachx3

Network Average: 74.5

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent

?

Full Disclosure Disclaimer: I currently work as a Brand Ambassador for Penderyn Distillery. The views expressed here are purely my own and do not reflect the views of Penderyn Distillery or The Welsh Whisky Company. I try to maintain as much objectivity as I can but feel free to take my reviews with as big a pinch of salt as you like. Furthermore, my rating scale is NOT based on a Parker type wine scoring scale or a school/college/university % or A-F grade score. I apologise for any seemly low or 'bad' scores given with my system and am sorry I can't say only nice things. Please keep in mind that I am ethically compromised and am unable to produce 100% unbiased reviews.

Why is this here?



That Mortlach Rare Old is the biggest ripoff on the market today. Luckily when I bought it, it was at the introductory bargain price of ~80us. Tried a couple of drams in different ways to see if it got better but no. It served a purpose though - brought out the fancy bottle for guests who are impressed by thick glass and fat corks. Poured them as much as they wanted while I sipped Ardbeg 10 and saying 'that Ardbeg might be too smoky for you, but this is really smooth' while making sure they got a good gander at the fancy container that says 'Rare Old' on it. I celebrated by smashing the empty at the town dump. That experience completely turned me off on Mortlach since it was my first pass until last year, when someone on this sub provided a sample of a 26yo Society that was amazing. 

TL;DR - don't waste your time on the Old Rare. And if you did, do not let it be your basis of judging their juice. 



I thought the 16 was still available? I bought a bottle not long ago (was expensive though). I still see it as in stock on WE (for a ridiculous price).

On the subject of cologne bottles, what the hell? Why is this a thing? Seriously, what market wants their Scotch (or, for that matter, any beverage) packaged in something that looks like an Aqua Velva bottle?!



Thanks to /u/Schockwaves for this sample

So close to 500 Scotch reviews. But why aren't I reviewing something ridiculous, like a ex-Arrack cask Scotch that was aged in the Hebrides after having cherrywood smoke used to dry the malt.

But let's get away from my insane fever dream of a whisky and get to why, oh why, I chose to review Mortlach 15 (Gordon & MacPhail) so close to my milestone reviews?

Normally I do review a lot of high ends whiskies when I come close to my divisible by 100 review numbers. 

However in the past few years I kept swapping for a variety of samples. Some I planned to do large multi reviews. Some I wanted to do by themselves.

None the less, I ended up with about 200 minis that needed to be done. My wife, who is ever so patient, explained I may want to catch up.

To help this out, I resorted my entire collection in an order of groups of similar whiskies, trying to make it so I went through highs and lows.

And as the smart person who understands and loves numbers, I of course completely disregarded which ones would be my milestone whiskies.

That's not to say that Mortlach 15 (Gordon & Macphail) isn't a special dram. This whisky is bottled by Gordon & MacPhail and was the closest thing you could get to an OB Mortlach for awhile.

And what an interesting dram. It's aged in refill and first fill sherry casks. There's talk that Mortlach specifically gave G&M the rights to sell it. The bottles themselves look very different than the stag headed bottling that G&M does.

And now that Mortlach's are quite pricey to try, it's interesting to see one that wasn't that expensive and try it.

Also I couldn't get to any other samples. So... that's why.

But let's not worry about numbers for the moment and get on with the review.

Price: N/A at the LCBO

Region: Speyside

Abv: 43%

Colour: 10YR 7/8

Nose: Raisin, orange, light brown sugar, cinnamon/ginger, lemon rind, thyme

This is rich enough that smelling it goes right to my hips. But heck, what doesn't these days.

The sherry note is evident, as you could imagine from the mental image of my hips. Lots of spice, raisin, and Xmas notes. Somewhere between good homemade cranberry sauce and healthy cranberry sauce, without the cranberry elements.

Taste: Brown sugar, anise extract, mint, raisin, ginger, underripe pineapple

Spicy. Quite spicy. However that's about all. 

Save for a flavour that tastes "off". Something that signals "not ready to eat yet", or "this fruit wants you to wait". Which I always do, as I'm a gentleman. It's strong enough over time to take over the seemingly stronger spice elements that dominate the taste.

Not fun.

Finish: Lemon, cranberry, black tea, underripe kiwi

Finishes quite bitter, which I'm known for whinging about. Has this acidic, bitter flavour that is overpowering. A little bit of bitterness is good. Nothing but bitterness and I'm out.

Conclusion: All in all an interesting dram that has suffered from either too much water, bringing out the rougher elements or too much sherry influence, erasing the Scotch elements.

Mortlach's are worth trying. They can be hit or miss. It's the nature of the juice. This one exemplifies that belief for me. The nose is quite nice, as long as you want something heavily sherried. The rest becomes too spicy and too bitter.

I'd try this one before you buy.

73/100

Scotch review #499, Speyside review #150, Whisky Network review #813

Other Mortlach reviews:

Mortlach 17 1988 Signatory Cask Strength

Mortlach 18 1995 Vintage Signatory Un-chillfiltered

Mortlach 21 (Gordon & MacPhail)

Mortlach 23 Blackadder Raw Cask

Mortlach SMWS 76.89 "A whisper of decadence"

Link to my website with all my reviews



My Current Whisky Network Average =     77.16

Standard Deviation =    10.03

Skewness =  -2.59813

Kurtosis =  9.99075

Median =    79

IQR =   9

Max =   92

Min =   15