The Whisky Guild had its annual Boston harbor cruise/tasting on Saturday. This is the third year I?ve gone and have had life changing scotches each time. Here are reviews of the best two I had:

Port Ellen 12th release, 32 years old, 52.5% (http://i.imgur.com/Lk8tv3Z.jpg)

Nose: Pure ocean air and seaweed, highly mineral. Nice old oak and a nice herbal hit. Leather and brown sugar. Hints of smoke and tar. Wow, this is going to be great stuff.

Taste: I did the unthinkable and added about a tsp. of water to a 30+ year old whisky. Given the ABV it needed it and soon opened it up into a transcendent experience. Oily, notable lack of peat for an Islay. It?s there, just subdued and perfectly integrated into the overall profile. More minerals and brine, it?s hard to overstate this aspect?it really was like putting river stones in your mouth. Beautiful age comes through: some nice cinnamon and leather. Some bright notes as well?hints of nice refreshing citrus.

Finish: Lingered for ages. I had to force myself to go try other scotch since I would have happily walked around sniffing the empty glass for the remainder of the boat ride.

Rating: 96

I can?t overstate how great this was. Once in a lifetime chance to taste a nice dram out of a bottle that?s now going for upwards of 2K. I spent a good 20 minutes nosing and tasting but I still didn?t give it all the time it deserved given the venue. 

Glenfarclas 1974, 31 years old, 57.4% (http://imgur.com/25W8k6w)

Nose: A bomb of sherry that was totally different than other sherry bombs (GF 105, A?bunadh, Mac 18, etc.). All the same notes are there, Christmas spice, malty sweetness, raisins and plums, ginger, cherries, chocolate. Also a very nice mint/menthol note.    

Taste: Basically what you?d expect from the nose. Coats the mouth like few others I've had. Again, water was necessary to unravel everything that was going on. That extra time in the cask really pulls everything together in a way that younger whiskys just can?t duplicate. Flavors continued to roll out for minutes. Nothing dominates, the oak bitterness balances out the sherry sweetness perfectly. My friend detected tobacco which I don?t know if I got but who am I to call him a liar. 

Finish: Not much different than the taste. Again, perfectly integrated, complex as hell, and lingered for ages. 

Rating: 93

Again, absolutely wonderful stuff. At ~200 bucks it would be in range for a splurge bottle. I?ve always heard how GF takes to age like few other scotches and, man, those people are right! 

Some other standouts from the boat were the Talisker 175th Anniversary Edition (a wonderful blend of their best casks, some 40+ years old), a Gordon and Macphail Cask-Strength Mortlach 1993 15 yr (had a distinctively ?spoiled meat? note that was somehow delicious), and a Exclusive Malts Glen Grant Distillery 20 yr (another overproof sherry bomb done perfectly). All in all I had 25 malts I?d never tried before and put my lifetime list over the 200 mark. 



Port Ellen 32 yo 1979 12th release - 52.5% abv

Nose: Brine, vanilla, peat, damp forest soil and gravel. Some orange zest, iodine, caramel, and fudge. Excellent.

Taste: Plenty of peat and brine with leather, grapefruit, and a pungent minerally earthiness throughout. There's a sharp sour note that continues into the finish.

Finish: Long and dry. Starts sour but turns into leather and brine.

Conclusion: I really enjoyed the nose, but I honestly have nothing to compare the palate to. I wish I could get a hold of some younger Port Ellen for perspective. I've heard about Port Ellen's character mineral earthiness but the sour note really threw me. Still, it wasn't off-putting and it was a great experience. Then again, I'd rather have something new and interesting rather than something tried and true.

Score: 89/100 Ganesha approves! 



f*ck, I said, this is probably the best review.

My keyboard alignment was off~~~~~~



Port Ellen 12th Release - 32 year, 52.5% ABV

Nose: Buttercream and smoke.   Peat and iodine, as expected from an Islay, but also some subtle citrus.

Taste:  Not as much peat and smoke as I'd hoped for, but I'm sadistic.  Under the smoke, there's buttered scones, subtle anise and caramel.

Finish:  Long and pleasant, with more smoke and some oak.

85/100

It's hard not to factor price into a review, and I may have.  I'd say it's a decent whisky, and in a blind tasting I may have gone as high as a 90, but I can't get over the cost of a bottle and how many bottles of QC or Laga 16 one could get for the same price.

Still, I'm really glad to have had the opportunity to try it.



What the fuck happened? Did someone piss out enormous amounts of port Ellen? Did someone find a secret lair of some evil genius that had all of it stored away? Or did the distillery reopen? 

There are so many reviews of this stuff. And I thought I'd have a rarity in my cabinet with the 19 y o Port Ellen :(

Edit: I am genuinely puzzled as to what happened with this sudden surge of port ellen reviews. If I drink this one with my dad I'll surely take some notes and let you know.

Edit: now I got more points than the actual tasting notes. I hang my head in shame.



It's already open, but there's a fair amount left. It's still from the days when my father was into scotch. 

We said we'll drink it when we feel like it. You know, special occasions 



Yeah but still. The distillery is closed. Now if all the reviews were on Christmas Eve and all of 18 y o and plus whiskey and several blue labels I'd get it. 

But scotch from a closed distillery before Christmas is strange. I sense a conspiracy

/tinfoil-hat 



Port Ellen 12th Release, 32 Years Old

Distilled 1979, 50.25% ABV

Seeing as everyone else has cracked out this baby for Christmas, I also dug out my sample for a tasting and to compare. I see many average reviews, how will it do?

Nose: Very briny, saline solution, seaweed, hint of iodine, some sweet barley and dried lemon rind. Slightly damp straw. A stern and restrained buttery vanilla oak. Ritz crackers. After a while in the glass the refill oak takes over with a farmyard buttery aroma.

Palate: Wow! A real explosion of flavours. Dried apple, freshly cut wet grass, slight salty, iodine and peatsmoke. Very delicate and light on the tongue. Fennel. Refined oak sweetness (the kind that takes 32 years...) The iodine grows to a crescendo of powerful but controlled peatsmoke. Then becomes very dry, carbolic and vegetal with dry oakiness pulling at the tongue.

Finish: Surprisingly flat. Gentle peatsmoke and that's about it.

Overall: This is the oldest whisky I've ever tried and it certainly throws up a great show on the palate. However, due to the closed nose and austere finish, I can't help shaking the feeling that this one is a bit past its prime. Worth getting a sample just to know that you're not missing out on anything by ignoring the hype, but I would be sorely disappointed if I'd paid in full for a bottle of this. Right now I am enjoying the Old Pulteney 17 a lot, and even if the Port Ellen was less than 1/10 of it's retail price at the same level as OP 17, I'd still go for the Pulteney. The PE is great but over hyped and over priced. The cost of rarity I guess.

Sorry Ellen, you only get a B...



Port Ellen 12th Release/32 Year 

52.5% ABV, $500

Amber-1, good legs

Nose : Gentle peat and smoke , ocean spray, carmel covered apples, wet oak

Taste : Thickens nicely. Gentle peat and smoke, light citris, slight brine.

Finish : Superb finish, lingers long. Dry, gentle smoke, oak, sweet malt, lemon.

88/100

Although Ellen wasn't even close to wowing me, I did fully enjoy the once in a lifetime experience.



Thank you for the review!

I really want to try something this old someday, even if just to confirm that it doesn't need to be old to be good to myself.



A very special review for me.  This was is the last of the distilleries from Islay I have had the pleasure to try.  From here it?s just expressions, unless they open another one.  I was very happy and lucky to be able to purchase this sample.  Lifelong goal: to visit this country and this island.

Review #47

Port Ellen: Release 12, 32 Year Old 52.5%

Color:  Amber +1, Diluted Apple Juice, Coats The Glencairn glass well with quick thick tears and legs.

Nose:  Iodine, Sea Mist, Peat, Earthy Islay, Woody Old Oak, Pear, Black Tea, Toffee, Wet Sand and Rock, Moss, Algae, Dry Grass, Furniture Polish, Wax, (reminds me a bit of a slightly Muted Caol Ila).

Mouth:  Oily, Rich, Warm Spices.

Taste:  Peat, Black Pepper, Metallic, Grassy, Iodine, Vegetal, Salt, Oak, Green Apple, Mint.

Finish:  Iodine, Salt, Seat Air, Bacon, Pepper, Long and Smoky.

With Water:  N:  Toffee, Pear, Peat, Iodine, Sage.  T:  Pepper, Metallic notes, Peat, Smoke, Carmel.

Score:  Nose: 23, Taste:21, Finish:24, Balance:22  Total: 90

This whisky has a fairly complex nose, and for 32 years I would hope so, The taste was good but not as intense and deep as I was hoping for.  A long smoky finish with a good, yet not absolutely stunning balance of flavors.  I?m sure the mystery and history might have slightly influenced my score but then what a treasure to taste this history of Scotland?s whisky.  Quite honestly for the money; Ardbeg, Laphroaig or Lagavulin could compete on a pretty level playing field.   



Well, obviously I missed the bandwagon...

While at the Christmas party for my wife's firm I was talking scotch with one of the partners and I mentioned in passing my current mission to sample Whisky's that are older than I am (24). Well, a couple nights ago my wife came home with a few samples from him and wow... i'm shocked at some of these. So I might as well make this my first one... here goes!

Port Ellen 12th release, 32 years of age. 52.5% ABV. Islay

Color: Amber -1

Nose: Smoke/Peat. Sweet, subdued wood. Sharp chemical vanilla, dry hay.

Palate: Explosion of spices and a scattered flavor profile. Ghostly peat presence, sweet wonderful old wood... chewing on a piece of antique furniture. Sweet caramel, bright sour apples.

Finish: Honey and citrus licked off a piece of wood with a tiny bit of peat. disappointingly short, but very pleasant.

90/100

Thought it was a fantastic Whisky, and I am super happy to be able to put this notch in my belt... I could never let myself shell out full retail on a bottle though, it's simply priced far beyond it's class (in my opinion).



Port Ellen 12 / 32 Year

52.5% ABV / $500

Bottled from refill American/European oak casks filled in 1979, a good five years before my birth, we're tasting a tiny droplet of Port Ellen 12th release, the 32 year old bottling from Diageo.  The price is shocking, but the distillery is defunct, and will never produce any more scotch.  So is this just a collect-it-because of its increasing rarity dram?  Or is there something truly special here, lost for all time--we'll see.

This is the embrace of the queen of a hive that has lasted for thousands of years, storing up honey from flowers long exctinct, a brief embrace that leaves you breathless and dreaming of simpler times.  It's an Islay, but one tempered by age so far it's almost speyside.  It's incredibly earthy and round.  

I think Port Ellen between the 9th and 12th releases has passed the inflection point at which the earthiness of the oak aging detriments the whisky.  The 9th edition is still fiery and young, the 10/11th editions are stateful, and the 12th edition is full and mature.  Going forward, we may not see a better vatting.

Rating: 93/100 

40th review

Homepage | Review | Buy @ Wine-Searcher



Great review!

Did you buy a bottle?



I have found some PE on an Australian site:

Have you had and experience with the IBs?



Interesting... Was it this one?

http://www.nicks.com.au/Product/View/1983-Single-Malts-of-Scotland-Port-Ellen-27-Year-Old-Single-Malt-Scotch-Whisky-(700ml)/486335



On the sea-sprayed Islay coast sits a legendary distillery that does not distill. Port Ellen is mothballed but still produces smoked malt for two other Diageo labels, which happen to be my two favorite Islays, Caol Ila and Lagavulin.  But PE is not entirely out of the game. Since 2001 they have released a cask-strength offering every year. This release is 32 years old, matured in both American and European (does that mean sherry?) casks, and proud owner of quite a reputation. The oldest single malt I have previously tried is a 19yo indie bottling of Rosebank, so I feel very privileged right now. 52.5% and as for price? Well, for the cost of this sample I could buy a handle of Johnnie Walker Red.  

Color: Cloudy amber. Surprisingly light considering the age.  

Nose: Medicinal -- similar to Laphroaig. Chigarid, cloves, fresh-cut grass, lavender, blueberries, seawater, sparking graphite on a braking train, chlorine, and mint. A peat mist with little malt.  

Taste: Thwomp! Heavy entry of smooth, syrupy malt and briny oak. Then big peat, sour seaweed, horseradish, green olives, raisins, and more brine. I caught no sherry.  

Finish: Very long and dry. Honey and sea salt, charcoal-peat, dark chocolate, dusty ash. Leaves in Fall. Early morning fire-pit embers. Evergreen bark. Good. Lord.  

Water? Not necessary. The mouth feel is very smooth although it goes down with a tickle. A splash of water calms it a bit too much, stretching out the sweet malt entry.  

Conclusions: Pour tellin' you what's up! It's a head-trip drinking something that sat in barrels longer than I have breathed. It's tough not letting that 32 serve as a powerful anchor when scoring. But score I must! I was fortunate enough to pour a glass of Lagavulin 16 for a comparison. (It's crazy to think that Laga is half the age of this PE.) I prefer the nose of Laga and, honestly, the basic flavor profile as well. I usually don't like medicinal peat, but Port Ellen is calmed by time -- more charcoal than bog, and more ash than smoke. Overall, it's the finish that wins the day here. I have limited experience with very old malts, but the long and dry finish is truly something amazing. Like breathing in the air of an old burnt-out beached pirate ship. I have to show some respect to my elder. My briny, peaty, cask-strength elder. 97/100.



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  Some may not know this, but there used to be an another Islay distillery right next to Laphroaig, Lagavulin, and Ardbeg called Port Ellen.  It's still there and still has barrels but it's doors closed back in 1983.  Since then there have been releases still being made and they will continue being made until their supply is dried up.  Today I have a rare one: Port Ellen 32 year old 12th Release 105 proof

eh.  is that really the reaction I should have of this?  these releases are overhyped.  it's good but not amazingballs. really glad to have tried it though.  The other Port Ellen I've had was a Signatory release and I found that much superior.  This had an acidic taste to it, more than any other Islay I've had.  Its mellower than I'm use to from Islay but it is old and that happens.  If this was a general release it would be most close to Caol Ila for me.  I believe I scored around the same as well.  The higher proof is not really strengthening it either. I feel like this has become a First World Problems review.

86/100



Doesn't matter; had Port Ellen.

I just want to try some, I don't really care if it's good or bad. Was this a MOM sample?



Sad that these are so overpriced/hyped. It sounds like good whisky, but there are not many casks of spirit out there that can live up to the promise of the marketing and the price. 

Great review!