Talisker Port Ruighe

Island, 45.8% ABV

Nose: Smoke, port, red wine, pepper, oak, beach wood, raspberries

Palate: Smoke, pepper, salt, brine, caramel, lemon, strawberries, port, red wine

Finish: Smoke, red wine, salt, brine, pears, raisins

84/100. The Talisker profile is very much here with the smoke, pepper and brine. The port, wine and fruit notes step this one up a bit, making for a very refreshing and drinkable palate, though they mainly contribute in the background. Good and enjoyable, I only had a sample dram but could have done with more. Would still take the classic 10 over this but well worth the try.



Hello Scotchit.  I?m here with my late homework of past reviews.  Below are 3 Taliskers reviewed from 5 Cl samples from finedrams.com.  Each Talisker sample was split into 2 sittings and sampled in a Glencairn neat. 

Cheers Scotchit!

Talisker 2013 Distiller Edition

45.8% ABV, Finished in Amoroso Sherry casks

$110 with Shipping to US

Talisker 57? North

A high strength NAS release from the Talisker, named after the line of latitude which the Isle of Skye sits on.

57% ABV, $100 with shipping to US

Nose: Nose is supersizing subdued considering the ABV, Not as strong as the Port Reign.  Light smoke, sea spray, pepper, woody and floral. 

Taste: Thickens nicely with an oil texture.  Smoke, but not as strong as the ABV would suggest.   Sweetness comes through as malty and herbal, then the maritime notes come on the backend.  Fresher /brighter tasking than the 10 year.

Finish: Medium duration and on the dry side, was hoping for longer.  Bonfire, smoke, red cooked fruit, vegetal, and background citrus.

Better than the 10 year, but not by much.

91/100

Talisker Port Ruighe

Another Talisker NAS.  The initial maturation in heavily charred European refill oak casks, then transferred in to Port casks.

45.8%, $80 with shipping to US

Nose: Smoke, berries, charred wood, salty, malty sweetness. A really nice nose.

Taste: Boom?Taste comes on like a freight train. Bonfire, port, pepper, and background brine.

Finish: Long and dry.  Campfire continues, pepper, bitter wood, cereal sweetness.

94/100  Fantastic Dram, hits a lot of right notes for me.



Port Cask Bonanza Feat. Talisker, Glenmorangie, GlenDronach & BenRiach (Reviews 7-11)

Preamble

I grew up in London, once the world?s busiest port. I then moved to Liverpool, also once the world?s busiest port. My favourite TV show is The Wire (as my flair suggests), set in Baltimore, again- once the world?s busiest port. I like ports, and I like their namesake too- a great drink, rich in history and flavour, that (like whisky) is wonderful in winter, next to the fireside after a hearty meal. Thus it seems to me to be a natural bedfellow to scotch. 

The Whiskies

Talisker Port Ruighe

BenRiach 17 Solstice

Glenmorangie 12 Year Old Quinta Ruban

BenRiach 15 Tawny Port Cask Finish

Glendronach 15 Tawny Port Cask Finish

Bar Talisker, this is the first I?ve tried of these distilleries, so I?m very excited to see what each represents. I?m hoping that they match the vivacity and complexity of the ?other? ports I?ve experienced throughout my life. 

Method

I first had this idea after I posted this query on port finishes. After some very helpful responses with suggestions for which bottle to buy, I decided to go a slightly different route, and make full use of the excellent Master of Malt sampling service and do a full-blown, no holds barred, port cask standoff. Unlike /u/rmill3r?s bold and insightful blind Islay tasting, (which was a great aid in doing a long post on whiskies with a defining characteristic) I?m not doing all five samples at once, but over two sittings- partly as I think I will lose my sense of taste by the third dram, partly because I have work all week but mostly because I've only the one Glencairn.

Glenmorangie 12 Year Old Quinta Ruban 46%

Starting with this because I was recommended it four or so times. 

Colour: Rosy marmalade. 

Nose: Immediately the winey influence of the port is there. Plums and spiced fruit. Raspberries. Some caramel and honey. Seville oranges. Cinnamon and slight liquorice. Malt begins to emerge after a while in the glass. 

Palate: Wow, berries galore. Blackcurrants and raspberries. Grapes too. Nice oily, chewy mouthfeel. Reminiscent of Vimto (an English grape, blackcurrant and herb drink). Sherry and port all over the shop, rich oranges and cardamom. Cut grass. Thick mint chocolate taste emerges, with malt. 

Finish: Chocolate takes ahold, but then subsides, leaving a slightly bitter cranberry. Sweeter berries come through the tail end. Quite long. 

Comments: Well if they're all as good as Quinta, this will definitely prove a worthwhile exercise. I was surprised at how prominent the port is, seeming to grow in influence with every sip I took. It feels deliberate here, woven well with the flavours of the whisky, as a opposed to tasting like an experimental after thought, which was my fear. Complex. Lovely. 92

GlenDronach 15 Year Old Tawny Port 46%

This next as I was warned off it several times, but I have an open mind. Interestingly it's matured in Tawny Port casks as opposed to the Quinta's (cheaper) Ruby Port.

Colour: dark pink gold.

Nose: Ergh! Vinegar. Vinegar. Lots and lots of vinegar. Some coconut (which is a match made in horrible, horrible hell). Rotten fruit. Some wood after a while. So far, so terrible. 

Palate: Bad wine. Very, very stewed tea. Rotten fruit from the nose finds its way here. Some malt. Sulphur. Wood influence. I'm not getting much more out of this because I'm dreading every sip. My mouth has shut down.

Finish: As far as I can tell, not there. Very short. Some sweet malt. Slight berry.

Comments Horrendous. I'll never doubt you again /r/scotch. Don't touch this whisky, don't think about it. For god's sake don't smell it. This was the only whisky I've tried so far that I've found undrinkable. Only whisky to make me sick since I had the best part of a bottle of Buffalo Trace on my birthday. 

20 only due to the colour and the fact that the finish and taste were marginally better than the nose. 

Talisker Port Ruighe 45.8%

A turn to familiarity after that horrorshow. NAS. Ruby port casks. 

Colour: Similar to the others, a bit more yellow.

Nose: "Talisker pepper". Earth. Peat. Raspberries and rhubarb over a fire. Some warm wet wood. Strawberry laces. Raspberry and slight plum. 

Palate: Light body. Quite the normal Talisker profile- pepper, smoke, peat. However eventually the strawberries emerge, as does vanilla scented soap. Slight rhubarb. Wine after a while in the glass. 

Finish: Hell of a lot of smoke. Dry cranberries. Spiced pears in red wine. Medium length. 

Comments: There's not a huge amount of port influence here, and I found I had to really go looking for the flavours. A nice whisky, but nothing special- port seems to just round off the whisky, rather than adding much. I feel this could have done with a bit more time. A dampener. 77

BenRiach 15 Year Old Tawny Port Cask 46%

So, more Tawny Port. Hopefully a better offering than the GlenDronach

Colour: Dark rose bronze.

Nose: Fragrant soap, really dominates. Stewed plum. Apples and pears. Wine. Something of the GlenDronach here that I can't pin down. Not super nice. 

Taste: Soap and berries from the off, nicer than the nose would suggest! Pears in wine. Raspberry and Apple juice. Port. Sweet raspberry syrup.

Finish: Very very short. Port and raspberries. Some bitterness. 

Comments: Well, this is a strange one. A great tasting whisky let down by its nose and finish. Very good if you like whiskies with a lot of strong fruit. Worth having a bottle purely for the taste, I could see me wanting to sip this after dinner in the future. 83

BenRiach 17 Year Old Solstice 2 Edition 50% 

Cask Strength I presume. The oldest of the lot, and the one I've been most excited about. Tawny Port again. 

Colour: Copper and pink.

Nose: Berries- Blackcurrant, blackberries and strawberries. Light smoke and peat. Honey. Slight nuttiness. Rich plums. Strong port. 

Palate: Peat. Berries everywhere. Wine gums. More berries. Smoke and spice. Pears and plums. Slight beefiness. Ribena. Cherry Haribo. The high proof really brings through the flavours. 

Finish: Very long. Smoked berries. Peat. Chocolate. Sweet port. 

Comments: Just great. So much to taste and enjoy, the peat doesn't mess around here, and neither does the port. Both up in your grill. This is the first of the five I've tried where I feel I could go for another dram immediately. An intricate and aggressive nose, and a lovely long finish. More expensive than the others and you can see why; it makes the step up from good to excellent. Buying a bottle. 95

By and large, port casks and finishes work. They lend a fruitiness where you otherwise might not find one- in peated, smoky whiskies such the Solstice and Talisker, whilst augmented the fruits and sweetness of the floral Glenmorangie. However, with the Talisker, the GlenDronach and to extent the BenRiach 15, there was a sense of "let's just shove this in there their for a while." You very much need the right whisky to be finished, and it needs time to take on the characteristics of a very fine drink in it's own right. The Talisker particularly could have been a great expression with a little more time in the cask (the NAS suggests to me that it's probably quite a young whisky to begin with). Anyway, this concludes my first content rich and hopefully helpful post on /r/scotch. I've enjoyed it, and I hope you have too. 

If you like floral Speysides and Highlanders: Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban

If you like peated whiskies: BenRiach 17 Year Old Solstice



great reviews! Ive been wanting to try the Arran Port Cask myself after really enjoying the Glenmo QR.

Also, don't write off Glendronach. The 15 year sherry wood is delightful (I dont enjoy the 12 so much, but I may have had a bad bottle).



Hi there Scotchit! I finally found the time to type and post some of the reviews I finished the last weeks. Annoyingly, I was covered in work and still am but somehow I have half an evening for my own and really don't want to ruin the moment with work. I was out with some buddies to try out a new bar and grill that opened recently, but surprisingly no one wanted to stay out long and hence I was already back home at around 10 pm. Food was good though and the whisky selection (well, for around here at least) was OK as well...but ? no wait, big news need CAPS ? BUT just as I arrived home my phone told me that Doug Martin is staying in Tampa which makes me incredibly happy as I'm a big fan of both the Buccaneers in general and the Muscle Hamster especially. Hence I'm sitting here all dressed up in my Bucs gear including Doug's jersey and happily comparing two Taliskers with different finishes. I started this already on Friday when I had some friends over for steak and a little ?Maturation? masterclass. The Talisker Destiller's Edition 2000 ? 2011 was a clear winner for two of my guests. It is finished in Amoroso Sherry Casks, sadly I haven't had any Amoroso yet, hence I can't give you a sherry review ahead of the Scotch review. To be honest I don't really know what Amoroso Sherry is, I read that it's either another term for Oloroso, or an older name for cream sherry or a vatting of Oloroso and PX Sherry...no clue and I'm too lazy to change my ignorance for now.
The Talisker Port Ruighe was casked in American and European Oak refill casks and then finished in Port Casks. Since I already ?reviewed? one Port elsewhere and the DE has no introduction I sparse you my thoughts on Port as well.
So we only know the age of one of the contestants and the casks of the other one...pretty unsatisfying but I guess we'll sadly see more of that the coming years. Both were bottled at the Talisker typicall 45,8%, were colored and (that's a guess here! Hook me up, if you know for sure) chill-filtered. The sample of the DE 2000-2011 was kindly brought to me by the grace of /u/vreckan and the PO is courtesy of Danish Delicatessen...erm...finedrams. Go ahead throw money at them! They ship to the US again!
On another note, are all Talsiker Destiller's Edition finished in Amoroso Casks? Seems like it, but I'm not sure. Any inside? Did anybody compare different vintages yet? Maybe I should some day...Ok, let's get this one out of the way first!     

WhiskyNetworkReview: #73+74 |  r/bourbon: #12 | r/scotch: #58+59 | r/worldwhisky: #3 | ? 84

Talisker DE 2011 | OB | 2000 - 2011 | (not sure what casks before it was) finished in Amoroso Casks | 45.8 % | |  ?60 in GER   

Talisker Port Ruighe | OB | NAS | American and European Oak refill Casks and then finished in Port Casks | 45.8 % | |  ?45 in GER    

Situation: Started this comparison Friday night when I had some friends over for steak and masterclass ?Maturation? and just came back to this listening to the London Symphony Orchestra playing Mendelsohn's ?Symphony No 3 Overture: The Herbrides? as recommended by /u/mikeczyz and trying to digitalise some of my paper review notes at my desk....

Nose PR: dusty peat, port!, wet leaves, red fruits, dusty somehow almost musty in a way, grapes, dark honey, some tart winey notes, only slightly salty ? I surely wouldn't even nearly think of Talisker if this would be done blind!
Nose DE: Tobacco leaves, overripe bananas, red fruits, sweet, peat, salty Talisker underneath it, cherries and nutmeg. In a way less ?lively? than the Port Ruighe, which might not make much sense to you but was as important to me, that I used two !! on Friday...     

Palate PR: sweet entry, red berry syrup, sweet (red) fruits, chocolate, peat, salty Talisker underneath. Like you take a sip of both Port and Talisker 10 and mix it in your mouth.    

Palate DE: sweet creamy entry, (very round was one of my first thoughts/impressions),brine and pepper, red berries and a bit peat, milk chocolate and an underlying honey like sweetness    

Finish PR: Salt, nuts, chocolate, red fruits, pepper, mocha, nice!   

Finish DE: here the basespirit really shows with long peppery brine-y Talisker and accompanying hints of honey sweetness giving away the Amoroso finish

Conclusion:
Port Ruighe had a bit  more red fruits and the DE had a  bit more Talisker, beside that they share quite a few similarities and I couldn't really decide which one I liked better. According to my guests on Friday, the DE kicked the PR in the dust but I actually liked the PR better on Friday but would prefer the DE tonight. Both are good, the DE was more rounded and the Sherry was better ?included? while the PR showed more red fruits and a more prominent Port influence. However, it was a bit strange that at one point, I felt like the Port was not integrated at all but both Port and Talisker happily co-existed in the dram, with the Port being more dominant. Still both are good solid expressions and if you like ?wine? influence with your peat, which I do, you will probably like both. So buy the DE because it has an age-statement ;) I would still buy the Talisker 10 over both of these finished expressions as the finish covers up some of the Talisker power.

Score: I would rate both with B so about 85/100 

Quick-Info on the scores: I made some adjustments to my scores/scoring as I wasn't 100% happy with it. I'll update earlier reviews and the archive. I went to an A/B/C style with different levels, I'll try to add some drams I consider representative for the score. These ratings only represent my feelings about the dram. It's neither logical nor fair but so is live...

Related drams: Talisker 10  | Glenfarclas 33yo Port Pipes | Kilchoman Port Cask | 

PS: So I finished one review, one...oh well maybe I should sparse most of my jibberish in the next ones but...BUT (remember?) the next ones are awesome and I like my jibberish, so I guess you'll have to wait till Friday to hear about my thoughts on two (TWO! YAY!) Port Ellens...Sneak preview: Awesome :P    



hmmm,

you know the hebrides overture is a standalone piece separate of the symphony, right?



I wonder what you listened to...was it the 3rd symphony or the hebrides overture?

Either way, Scottish influenced.  Check out the Hebrides overture, though.  Just youtube it.  IIRC, it was influenced by the Isle of Skye and all of that.



I wonder what you listened to...

This if you have spotify :)



Review dump Day 4.. THE DUMPENING. Review 13-19

Glencadam 12 Year Old Portwood Finish

Arran Port Cask Finish

Talisker Port Ruige

This grows on you the more you try it? 

Balvenie 21 Year Old PortWood Finish

Would be nicer if it wasn?t so watered down.

Glenmorangie Quinta Ruban 12 Year Old

Awesome sauce!

BenRiach 15 Year Old (Tawny Port Cask Finish)

Not so well balanced, or subtle. Takes your breath away at first but gets better.

Kilchoman Port Cask Matured

Delicious, but nothing on the 100% Islay.



I didn't say I didn't like it :-P

Can imagine that the NCF is very expensive, the 21 is insane as it is. 



Wasn't that bad. I got a bottle for ?120.

All gone now. 



Is that BenRiach 15 the Solstice 2nd Edition?

Where does Laphroaig Cairdeas 2013 Portwood score for you?



So, I was going to post the first part of my Scotland travel journal thing, but since I haven't had time to proofread it and have my girlfriend check that what I've written isn't incriminating, I'll hold off on posting it for a few days. 

Instead, what I have is a 3-part vertical of next-level Taliskers for when you adore Talisker, but want something a little bit more special than the 10. This time, it's the Talisker 18, Talisker Port Ruighe and Talisker Dark Storm. Bear in mind that 2 of these reviews were done on the basis of a single dram and were transcribed from a notebook, so they won't be super-detailed. Also why the picture is just the Dark Storm.

First up is a classic that has recently received a hell of a lot of price increases, driving it out of the hands of most people. I spotted this up on a shelf (amongst countless other treasures) at Bon Accord in Glasgow. I think it was about ?15 for a dram, but I couldn't swear that was true. Anyway, Talisker's probably one of my favourite distilleries and the 10 is a staple of mine, so I had to try it. I'd never even seen it at a bar!

This review's about a week old, written on a wee notepad that I bought for the trip (I didn't manage to fill it up, sorry!). However, there was a bit of a space limitation, so my additional comments are rather brief.

Review #31: Talisker 18
Islands, 45.8% ABV, 18 years in ex-bourbon casks

Nose: salty sea air, smoke, oaky, mild toffee, mild bitterness

Really good, promises great thing. Less aggressive than the 10, but very much in line with what you'd expect from a Talisker.

Taste: salty, smoky, smoked ham, peppery, mild oaky vanilla, salty caramel

Surprisingly fresh and airy arrival. Very Talisker, but a bit more rounded. Overall, great. 

Finish: long and fierce, pepper, brine, oaky bitterness, smoke

Not muted by age, surprisingly, very lively.

Conclusion: Delicious. However, recent price increases make this less of a must-buy, and more of a should-try. The quality is definitely still there, though. A beautifully rounded Talisker experience.

Score: 91/100

Not worlds away from the 10, so 3 points more.

Next is Talisker Port Ruighe, an NAS release from Talisker that has been finished in port casks for an unknown amount of time. The name's pronounced "Portree", by the way, which is the largest town on Skye. Apparently, some of the Dark Storm's heavily charred casks were also blended into it. This was about ?10 for a dram, also enjoyed at the Bon Accord in Glasgow (great selection).

Review #32: Talisker Port Ruighe
Islands, NAS, 45.8% ABV, finished in port casks

Nose: smoke, port fruits, black pepper, currants, vanilla pods, red wine

Less salty and much fruitier than the 10. An inviting nose, with the port finish being an obvious influence.

Taste: fresh arrival, smoke, black pepper, salty, biting, sour currants, sultanas

Fresh and fruity with a black pepper bite. Good, apparently. I'm not very good at writing lengthier notes at bars.

Finish: long and quite dry, smoke, pepper, salt, mildly bitter wine tannins, raisins

A reminder that this is a Talisker. Hot and spicy, but slightly tempered with fruits.

Conclusion: Definitely a Talisker. The port casks are most apparent on the nose, which is sweeter and fruitier than you'd expect from a Talisker. The palate is very fresh and sweet, setting you up for a kick in the ass from the finish which is mostly smoke and pepper. At this price (~?50), it's pretty worth it if you like Talisker.

Score: 89/100

Not too different from the 10, but still good.

Last is the Talisker Dark Storm. I was at London Gatwick on my way back from my Scotland trip and was umming and ahhing about whether to pick up the Laphroaig QA Cask or Balvenie Triple Cask 12 when I happened to wander around (Laphroaig already in hand) and spot this bottle. Well, I love Talisker, and since I've never seen a review of it, I would be the first! Also, I absolutely adore the Ardbeg Alligator, which was matured in heavily charred casks, and the box said this had gotten the same treatment so it was almost a no-brainer. I would have picked up the Laphroaig as well, but my budget was already stretched pretty thin, so that'll have to wait.

From what I can tell, the Dark Storm is another NAS release from Talisker, matured in heavily charred (ex-bourbon?) casks. Let's see how it fares.

Review #33: Talisker Dark Storm
Islands, NAS, 45.8% ABV, ?45 for 1 litre, matured in heavily charred casks

Colour: copper, probably E150 - I can't see it being all natural

Nose: classic Talisker salt and pepper, fresh smoke, sweet rye, mildly bitter oak, stinging alcohol

Honestly, the youth of this is already visible on the nose - you can't bury your nose too deep without sharp alcohol burning your nostrils. Apart from the classic Talisker smoke, salt and pepper profile, I get a lot of rye whiskey character like a Rittenhouse Rye. A bit more of a bitter oak character than the standard Talisker as well.

Taste: light to medium bodied, sharp and stinging, rich rye sweetness, burnt oak, strong vanilla, salt and whole black pepper

Like biting down on a candied black peppercorn. The rye and oak character is front and center here, with vanilla sweetness and sea salt coming in after a good few seconds. The burn is all at the front of the tongue - if this is older than 8 years old, I'd be shocked because it burns like much younger whisky. 

Finish: long and hot, bitter oak, bonfire ashes, ground pepper, brine

Not much sweetness in this at all - while the palate is really rather sweet, the finish is mostly bitterness and ash. Really rather hard to take more than a few sips without a sip of water in-between. Alcohol burn stays on the tongue for a long time and never quite reaches your throat.

Conclusion: Is this a successful experiment? Honestly, it's a mixed bag. The palate is really rather good and tastes like a peated rye whiskey, but the burn and the finish lead me to believe this stuff is just too young. With a few more years to mellow out, I think this would be a staple for me by edging out the Ardbeg Alligator while actually being available and rather affordable. 

However, the bitterness on the finish is always a bit of a dealbreaker for me. I have a litre of this, and unless I get a lot more tolerant to it, it's going to be a hard one to finish.

Score: 80/100

Potential is there, but it's just a bit too harsh.

Overall, the winner is clearly the 18 for sheer quality. However, for price/quality ratio I lean heavily towards the Port Ruighe. I love port finishes almost universally, and this isn't bucking the trend. The Dark Storm is bottled too young in an unfortunate black mark against NAS releases. It has its charms, but it's just not there yet.

Worth trying all of them though. I still need to track down the Storm, as well to round out my Talisker portfolio. For now, I still think Talisker 10 is the best bang for your buck when looking for a Talisker.

Previous Talisker Reviews
- Talisker 10
- Talisker 57 North
- Talisker Distiller's Edition



disappointed to hear that about the Port.  But at least that means i wont waste my money.  any chance for a swap on that one?

I'm not as big of a fan of Talisker like I once was.  I did snag the 18 this year before the price increase for like $80 I think.  Next week it was $130 which is a ridiculous price for it. 



From my understanding, this is the Talisker Skye finished in ruby port casks.  Bottled at 45.8%.

?

Nose:  Light smoke and brine.  Cherries and plums and wintergreen.  Fennel and mint.

Palate:  Medium creamy mouthfeel.  Very Talisker.  Very smooth and well balanced.  Light smoke wrapped around red fruits.  Lots of cherries and raspberries.  Some apple as well.  Fairly sweet but not cloying.

Finish:  Medium finish.  The sweetness fades and the smoke takes over.  But this isn't a peat bomb.  This has that very measured amount of smooth Talisker smoke.  There is a bit of a medicinal quality as well.  A bit bitter.  And then toward the end the wintergreen I smelled on the nose peaks out.

Score: 88/100

?

This is quite good.  Another excellent Talisker.  A bit sweeter than most but not overly so.  It occurs to me that I've never had a bad dram from them.  I've also never had one of their whiskies blow me away.  But they have a strong focus on consistency and quality.  I'd love to have a bottle of this on hand.

?

/u/review_bot 'Talisker'



/u/throwboats's latest reviews about Talisker:

Hey, I'm just a simple bot. If you have any remarks, please direct them at /u/FlockOnFire



Talisker is an old favourite, a classic malt from the Isle of Skye with a smoky, but not medicinal profile, and something I always like to have around. The past few years have seen non-age-statement (NAS) Taliskers popping up like weeds, with some good and some bad.

This particular one is port finished. I love port, and I love port finished smoky whiskies so it?s been on my sights for a long time, and finally got hold of a sample (with things like this I always try a sample before committing to a whole bottle). The name is apparently pronounced ?Port Ree?, because no age statement means funny name and/or long story.

Aged 3 years*. 45.8%ABV.

*For lack of age statement

Nose: Woody talisker smoke. Brine. Sticky red fruits, plums, cherries, those small little raisins, forgot the name. Wood glue. Acetone. Sandalwood. Pretty intense woodspice note. Bit of plum wine. Unrefined oak boards, after some class time this becomes quite dominant.

Palate: A little rough here. Some peat, some salt and then a big fruity punchy note. Peppermint & milk chocolate on the swallow, two distinct notes, not peppermint chocolate.

Finish: Long. Bitter wood. Citrus zest. Dark chocolate. Wisps of woodsmoke and pepper with some charred fruits.

Would I buy this: Yes

Would I order this in a bar: Yes

Would I drink this if someone gave me a glass: Yes

VFM: 3/5

This was interesting, I?ll give it that. I found the nose quite good, but the palate was a bit rough, perhaps a little too aggressive for its flavour profile. The finish was not bad at all either. Would be good if a little more refined. I won?t go out and buy a bottle, but this was worth tasting for interests? sake.

Reviewed in my blog:
https://iwriteaboutstuffilike.com/2016/06/09/talisker-port-ruighe/



Nice! I enjoyed this one more that I thought I would. Also, if you'll forgive the pedantry, it's pronounced more like "Pour Tree" (without the pause between words) with the emphasis on the 'T' rather than the 'R'.  

?

Edit to add that your scoring system is great!



Hi everyone,

Got some more whisky today from one of my favourite distilleries, Talisker. 

A mate of mine just bought a bottle of the Distiller?s Edition in Tesco on half price, which reminded me I had done the same (?26 if you were wondering). It also reminded me that I had never put the review up, so here it is. Thought I?d also include my only other Talisker review which is the unpronounceable Port Ruighe (Port Ree, I think?).

Did you know that the new Torabhaig distillery on Skye is just starting up at the moment (Think it?s finished but can?t find the source now)? Should be really interesting to see what they will be producing in a few years time! Although I think in general we have yet to see another Kilchoman, I.E. A new distillery genuinely doing something unique, doing it well and releasing the whisky.

?

Talisker Port Ruighe 45.8%

Colour: E150a

Body: Medium/Full

Nose: Smoky classic Talisker with the cask sweetness quite obvious. The port is there with an orangey note. Sea salt, lime tang, sweet BBQ sauce. Doesn't really fit well together.

Taste: Juicy and smoky. Quite sweet and blueberry juice, honey syrup, Turkish delight, a little rose and peppery/coriander spice behind. A little wood smoke going into the finish.

Finish: Medium length. Blueberry juice with black pepper cracked in it.

A vatting of bourbon, sherry and rejuvenated casks then finished in Port. Nose is better with water but the taste fell apart.

67/100

?

Talisker Distiller's Edition 2000 45.8%

Colour: E150a

Body: Medium

Nose: Wonderful sweetness. Turkish delight, hard candy, icing sugar, sweet perfumed smoke, creamy smoke, creamy vanilla, some marmalade, heather, salt and pepper, a bit of ginger. Over time- Roasted coffee beans and dark chocolate. Country slices- Cinnamon, cream and fruit compote.

Water: More creamy and more spicy ginger, strawberry chocolate, dry white wine, sweet herbal note- Rose and strawberry. Also almond, marzipan, amaretto biscuit, banana, red apple, oily butter, caramelised sugar and aromatic spice.

Taste: Rich and complex. Beautiful balanced between sweet and smoke. Thick creamy sweet arrival with some fruit- White grape, some cherry, marmalade and creamy smoke. Developing bonfire smoke and spice- Chilli and black pepper.

Water: More spicy oak, strawberry cheesecake, bit of bitter dark chocolate. Oily butter and lime too.

Finish: Medium length. The classic Talisker cracked black pepper kick. Lovely.

Bottled 2011. 6 months-2 years in Ameroso barrels. Must be older Talisker in here as well, really good balance and complexity too. Only a touch below the 18yo. 

80/100

?

Thanks for reading!

Scotch Reviews #322-#323

Whisky Network Reviews #356-#357



Blog Post: daveswhiskyreviews.com/talikserdepr

Network Average: 74.5

Best Score: 92

Worst Score: 44

0-49 Terrible

50-59 Bad

60-64 Just About OK

65-69 Ok to Good

70-74 Good

75-79 Very Good

80-84 Excellent

85-89 Superb

90+ Magnificent

?

Full Disclosure Disclaimer: I currently work as a Brand Ambassador for Penderyn Distillery. The views expressed here are purely my own and do not reflect the views of Penderyn Distillery or The Welsh Whisky Company. I try to maintain as much objectivity as I can but feel free to take my reviews with as big a pinch of salt as you like. Furthermore, my rating scale is NOT based on a Parker type wine scoring scale or a school/college/university % or A-F grade score. I apologise for any seemly low or 'bad' scores given with my system and am sorry I can't say only nice things. Please keep in mind that I am ethically compromised and am unable to produce 100% unbiased reviews.

Why is this here?



Hey, nice review, the Port Ruighe was a bit disappointing but the DE Looks fun. 

I was wondering how you became a brand ambassador? And perhaps what's involved in it? 



Thanks!

I've been working at the distillery as a tour guide for a while then as assistant manager of the visitor centre. Just been trying to learn as much as possible. Now they've decided that I'd be best utilised as an ambassador.

It involves going to events, tastings, etc. around the UK and Europe at the moment. Also training various people on the brand and products. I give masterclasses at the distillery too. 

Heading to the Netherlands next week for a festival.



Ohh cool, I always wondered how you got into that line of work. 

All the best! 



It's the last night at our friends house in the UK, and I'm getting nearer to the end of the liver destroying vacation that I needed, badly.

I don't know about you, but when I'm on vacation, I want to eat well, and drink well. And drinking well means getting some interesting and new whisky from distillers that I should drink more of. Distilleries such as Talisker

Talisker is from the Isle of Skye, being the only distillery there. It gains its named from the surrounding area, as it originally started with a lease from the Clan Macleod of Talisker House.

I presume that the head of Clan Macleod has looked into them ever since, as he searches out the world, sword fighting and being a Prince of the Universe. Perhaps he was the one who hinted that they should finish their main malt with port, creating the Talisker Port Ruighe

Region: Island

Abv: 45.8%

Price: N/A in Ontario

Colour: Brick dust

Nose: Peat, caramel, iodine, red licorice, marmalade, raspberry, smoked rhubarb

I was expecting a blast of fruit, however the usual Talisker profile I'm used to in the 10 is the first thing. Over time, The Game continues and I'm met with more fruit, though the smokiness and the high peat level are always present.

Taste: Caramel, peat, dates, iodine, lemon, strawberry, vanilla ice cream, red licorice

Again (assuming I'm not throwing things off by drinking this on holy ground) this starts off as the usual Talisker profile of peat and caramel, though the port is more pronounced here, and you don't have to wait 400 years for it to show up. 

It ends up very sweet as it opens up, and my sweet tooth is loving this one.

Finish: Lots of Smoke, pear, currant, sultanas, grape gum, red apples

There's a good balance between the usual smoke and the fruit tones from the port. It can be a double edged sword though, as it can become overwhelming to the tongue over time, and some may find it too tart, sweet, and/or sour for their tastes.

Conclusion: This is a very well crafted dram that has aged well and won many fights. The Talisker profile is very much present, though the strength of the port finish adds a new dimension. Definitely try a dram, unless you don't like too sweet whisky.

85/100

Scotch review #106, Island #8



dude, you pretty much went on a bender 

Thanks for your reviews!



Oddly enough I wasn't drunk the whole time.

Oh well, 3 more to post and then I'm done my "vacation" drinks.



Well I had a few past 100 that I had to finish up, but yeah, I'm slowing down after the ones tomorrow.

Kinda turned my liver into pate on the vacation...