Hello Scotchit! I recently got together with a few friends of varying degrees of experience with Scotch and had a vertical tasting of Talisker's offerings.

We tried, in order, the Talisker 10 year, Talisker Distiller's Edition, Talisker 18 year, and Talisker 25 year.

I'm going to post my thoughts on each bottle, as well as a conglomerate score based on the other scorer's. Unfortunately, our most experienced Scotch drinker withheld his notes so that he could post his review here (in detail) in the future; and our wine drinker withheld his notes because he didn't feel like his palate was developed enough for reviewing Scotch.

Talisker 10 Year

Additional thoughts: Great 10 year offering, but aging 2 more years would have rounded this out perfectly. I discussed this Scotch (specifically, the need for an additional 2 years of aging) with a well-respected connoisseur; he told me Talisker used to have a 12 year offering that was stellar. Bah, humbug.
++Even my girlfriend, who normally dislikes alcohol, enjoyed this greatly. 

Talisker Distiller's Edition

Additional thoughtss: Very underwhelming, annoyingly sweet. Not what I would expect from a Talisker.

Talisker 18 year

Additional thoughts: Definitely the best of the lot. Incredibly well balanced, with complex flavors and a good amount of peatiness. Long finish makes this an excellent go-to for regular drinking.

Talisker 25 year (no water)

Talisker 25 year (w/ a drop of water)

Additional thoughts (both w/ & w/out water): I really expected this to be the best of the bunch, unfortunately, the oiliness really killed this for me. Additionally, the years aging by the sea brought on a weird brininess that I felt conflicted with the fruitiness. Adding a drop made it sweeter, but more oily. I do understand that at cask strength, the 25yr should feel a lot harder than the others, but even so, the alcohol content was overwhelming (much more so than many other cask strength whiskys I've tried.

Group thoughts:

(1) Brother, with absolutely no palate (new/college drinker: just vodka, mixers, beer; that kind of stuff)

10 year: B-.
Distiller's Edition: D.
18 year: C.
25 Year: B.

Notes essentially said that everything tasted like ass. He had the least problems with the 25 year and the 10 year.

(2) Friend, decent experience, growing palate, loves sherry.

10 year: C+
Distiller's Edition: B+
18 Year: C
25 Year: A-

Absolutely abhorred the 18 because of the peatiness ("tastes like bark.")

(3) Friend, wine drinker, withheld notes.

Liked the 18 year the best, then 10 year, Distiller's Edition, then the 25 year last. We were in agreement about almost everything regarding these whiskys. I assigned values accordingly.

(4) Friend, most experienced, loves brininess and oiliness.

Liked the 25 year miles above everything else. Rated it 94. Didn't really catch his thoughts on the other 3. Only his score for the 25 year was counted for the group score.

Conglomerate Score:

10 year: B
Distiller's Edition: C+
18 Year: B
25 Year: B+

Thoughts: Likes and dislikes varied wildly when it came to Talisker. Consider a different choice when entertaining guests! Personally, I love Talisker, but as always, YMMV.



Yeah! It almost feels like a waste tasting with my brother though. Hopefully he'll develop his palate sooner, rather than later. I'm definitely a sucker for social gatherings though, so its all good.

I already archived, although I forgot to add the Talisker Distiller's Edition year: 2005. It was distilled in 1992. And flair? definitely welcome.



No clue.

... ;)



Could you at the alcohol percents to the description for comparison to Talisker 57 North?

Edit: They are all 45.8% except the 25yo is 57.8%



Those percentages are correct, sorry for the omission!

Edit: the 25 year is 57.2%



I recently turned 30, and my family gave me a bottle of the Talisker 30 as a gift.  I've had a glass with family, and I agree with many of your comments re: the 25 however the 30 had almost a red-wine feeling to it, it was so mild and drawn out.  I'm going to try and make it last as long as possible.

Given your comments I'll probably get a bottle of the 18 as well



Talisker 10

Nose- sweet peat, brine, cheerios, slight floral, hint of honey/caramel

Palate-vanilla, peat, light brine, hint of mint

Finish- long, spicy peat and cheerios

Overall- a favorite of mine.  It?s good with a strong style of peat that isn?t Islay in nature.  A nice one to keep around.  88/100

Talisker 5 Hepburn?s Choice K&L Cask Strength Single Cask 59.5%

Nose- grassy, vegetal peat, herbal smoke. Given some time to settle, a sweet malt note emerges.

Palate-hot & peppery, very herbal, very spirit, grassy.  In time the sweet malt note shows up here as well.

Finish- here is where the peat and smoke show up.  Still peppery, fairly long.  The addition of water wipes out the finish.

Overall-tasting blind, I would mistake this for some sort of herbal grappa.  Completely unrecognizable as Talisker and hard to believe that in only five more years its ready to go into the OB 10yo.  That said, this was a very interesting one to experience. And it?s an independent bottling of a single cask, cask strength Talisker: a unicorn if there ever was one. 75/100

Talisker Storm

Nose- peat, seaweed, honey, vegetal/grassy sweetness.  This is instantly recognized as the missing link between the 5 year old and the 10yo OB.

Palate-grassy, seaweed, peat

Finish- gets spicier as it goes, grass, peat

Overall-it?s just ok, though it doesn?t hold a candle to the 10 year old. The grassiness isn?t my favorite and a character I associate with young spirit. 79/100

Talisker 57N 57% abv

Nose- not a very active nose. Subdued.  Hint/absence of peat.  Brine, floral, bbq sauce, malt sweetness

Palate-bbq sauce, it?s hot (high abv), peat, malty.  It?s thick and mouth coating

Finish- This one really crawls all over the mouth.  Hot and spicy, seaweed, peat.

Overall-this one is powerful neat and suggests that higher abv Talisker would really be an asskicker.  The addition of water turned the Hulk into Bruce Banner.  85/100

Talisker Distillers Edition

Nose- oranges, citrus, fruit forward, very sweet, peat & salt behind. Very interesting. Some bbq smoke

Palate-bbq sauce, citrus, pepper

Finish- light spice, light pepper, light bbq sauce, sweetness. The shortest finish of the bunch but my favorite.

Overall-wow.  What a nose and finish.  The palate is when my senses were able to relax and just enjoy the flavors after the searching involved in nosing this one.  The finish reflects the nose, creating a symmetry that I found fantastic.  A special whisky.  94/100

tl;dr: Talisker good, Talisker DE special, 57N strong, Storm young, 5 HC weird.



Omg, this is perfect for me. I have a bottle of each of these minus the 5 year old, and I actually just went through and drank a finger of each the other night to compare them, but I haven't really got into "tasting" yet. 

I think I might do it again tonight and compare to what you got out of each of these to see . Thanks!



Picked up this cute lil set of 200mls at Warehouse in Manhattan. 45.8% ABV each.

10 years
Top of the cork broke off. I'm guessing this is a mini-bottle problem.

Enjoyable but unmemorable for me. I'd totally order it in a bar at a decent price, though. 83/100

Distiller's Edition
Double-matured in Oloroso wood. No explicit age statement but says bottled in 2005, distilled 1992 soooo 13 years? 

I dig this one. Wouldn't mind having a full bottle of it and drinking regularly, though I probably wouldn't buy one anytime soon. 86/100

18 years

My favorite. Doesn't quite crack its way into being a grade-A Scotch for me but damn close, damn close. Seems like something that would please beginners and hardcore malt maniacs alike. 89/100



Talisker Side-By-Side

Lucky enough to get a sample of the Talisker Distiller?s Edition (DE) from /u/EMoneySC2 , reviewing it here next to Talisker Storm (Storm). My method is to nose the Storm, move to the DE, then return to the Storm. Repeating this with tasting, with a few sips of water in between. Both are neat in a glencairn, and enjoyed listening to a too little known bluesman by the name of Luther Allison

Talisker Storm: 45.8% ABV, NAS, $50

Talisker Distiller?s Edition: 2013 edition (?), Secondary Maturation in Amoroso Sherry casks, believe it is also 45.8% ABV. ~ 11 years

Appearance

Storm:  light, with a slight tinge of deeper orangey color, guessing colouring added? Legs don?t quite form

DE: Whaddya know, the DE is a little bit darker, but only slightly. Necklacing, pin-stripe tears

Nose

Storm: Sweet and malty, a little salty. The smoke is barely there, much more subtle than the Talisker 10. Honey, grain, with a little air there is a hint of the peppery notes I expect from Talisker. Coming back to this from the DE it actually smells much richer, get a bit more pepper

DE: Initial smell is like candy, really has that artificially flavor sweetness. Where is the Talisker in this glass? There is a barely perceptible undertone of peat, no smoke at all for me. Ok, after giving it air for 10+ min the sweetness is muted and I am getting some smoke in the background with a saltiness in the foreground.

Taste:

Storm: Smooth, vanilla, malty sweetness. No real smoke on the palate, but the rich sweetness is finally balanced by some pepper and savory notes. Going back after sipping the DE, same emphasis on sweet vanilla and some light pepper

DE: Salty caramel, candied pepper. Okay, now I?m starting to get this dram, it has the savory elements of Talisker 10 but candied. Moving the scotch around my mouth reveals some nice smoke, this is surprisingly nice after the lackluster nose

Finish

Storm: Finally some smoke appears. The sweet richness is balanced by some smoke and pepper, it?s warm and medium-long, hint of bitterness lingering

DE: Candied smoke, but I am missing some warmth. The sweet tastes stay longer than the smoke

Summary

Storm: I am about halfway through a bottle of Storm and have found it a little disappointing. While the name is not fitting, the scotch itself has some merit. More vanilla and richness than the Talisker 10, but I enjoy the spicy character of the latter. 81/100

DE: Found the nose disappointing at first, but some air released the smoky nature enough for me to enjoy it. This is a better sipper than a noser, on the palate there is a great balance of pepper and candy. A good dram held back by an inconsistent nose and a mediocre finish. 84/100

Luther Allison: Decent, highlight is Five Long Years at end of Side A. Doesn't live up to this best work, which was done on Motown. This man needs horns & that full production value!



So my in-laws gifted me a ticket to a Scotch tasting event at a local restaurant.  $100 gets me 10 scotches to sample, and each whisky was to be paired with different fancy foods. There were to be 5 expert speakers and all samples were from the Diageo lineup.  Overall? pretty much the coolest gift from my in-laws ever!

The Tasting Lineup:

My wife and her parents ate in the dining room while I entered the tasting area.  Long story short? this was not at all what I was expecting it to be.

The Setting: I walk in to find chairs lining the perimeter of the room and no tables to sit at.  The scotch is spread out, 2 bottles per table, 5 tables around the room.  On each table is a completely different food to try along with the whisky.  Hmm..  I came here to sample whisky.  Food is just gonna mess with that.  I?m skeptical.  

Of the 5 ?expert? speakers: 4 were sales reps from Diageo and 1 was the bartender of the restaurant who happens to like scotch and agreed to help out.  The ?experts? stand behind the table and pour whisky for whoever wants it and just wait to be asked questions.  I lost count of how many times they had to explain and justify their NAS whiskies and ?why they don?t need age statements because it?s not about how old the whisky is, it?s about how good the whisky is?.  Ironically, I had the most fun talking to the bartender.  He was a big fan of Talisker Storm, but that wasn?t on offer for sampling that night.  So he ran to the bar, grabbed the bottle and poured me a glass.  I introduced him to r/Scotch and he pointed me to a WhiskyNews iOS app.  Nice.

So each person gets 1 Glencairn.  ONE. For the entire evening. For all 10 samples.  Wat?  They were nice enough to have a small pitcher of water at each scotch station, so I used that to keep cleaning out my glass before asking for a different sample to try.  Nowhere to discard my used napkins, though. They didn?t serve any water for people to drink (or regular glasses to do so), so I just kept filling my Glencairn with water from the pitchers to stay hydrated.  By the end of the event, I had pretty much emptied all 5 pitchers :P.  Apparently I was the only one doing that, as almost everybody there was pretty wobbly by the end of the night.

The Food. I was right. Mixing food tastes and aromas messed up my ability to nose and taste whisky.  Fried Duck Wings (delicious, but still? it?s the principle of the thing) :P, Smoked Salmon with a Scotch Maple Syrup sauce, Endive Salad, Duck, Boar & Pheasant Sausages, Rack of Lamb, raw oysters and cooked shrimp, and something else I can?t remember.  All in all, a nice selection if you were going there for the food, but a hodgepodge even so.

I guess I?m a whisky nerd.  I didn?t see anybody else with their nose in their glass or writing any notes down.  They all seemed to be there to just get pissed.

After the event my mother-in-law asked me how it was and that I should be honest.  I told her I expected something very different.  She said ?I talked to the owner the other day and asked him some questions about it.  He said this is the first time he?s ever had an event like this at the restaurant.?   Oh? I guess that makes sense, then.   

On the drive home I realized I was thinking of a Whisky Tasting Masterclass.  White linen tablecloths and someone like Richard Paterson giving a presentation, teaching the audience how to nose and taste, guiding them through a series of samples so they can learn to taste the influence of oak and time across the same distillery line.  I was hoping to learn something new, or try a whisky no one ever gets to try, or try to figure out a mystery bottle or do a blind tasting, but all I managed to get out of it were a few new samples and some re-tries? which was still totally worth it.

**REVIEW #74 (re-review): Talisker - 10 year - 45.8% abv 

Nose: Mineral, peat, vegetal, raisin, anise, throat lozenges, pineapple, vanilla, unripe apple.  Same as before.  Good to know it?s consistent.

Taste: Soft peat/wood smoke, spicy heat, herbal (Basil?)

Finish: Good length, lingering peat, wish it had more fruits and spices and sweetness to balance it off some more.

Score: 85/100 

Buy a full bottle? No.

Closing Thoughts: The Distiller?s Edition is much more in line with my preferred flavor profile and it only costs $10-15 more.  I?d always pick that over this.

**REVIEW #75: Talisker - NAS - Storm - 45.8% abv 

Nose: Brine, strong alcohol, banana, smoked meat, citrus

Taste: Oily mouthfeel, wood smoke, sea salt, chili pepper heat, harsh on the swallow

Finish: Lingering peppery heat, dry, smoke, harsh aftertaste

Score: 75/100 

Buy a full bottle? No.

Closing Thoughts: So far the NAS expressions aren?t doing it for me.  I taste youth and harsh alcohol, sometimes I get an acrid note.  It may be due to my lack of confidence because I have no real idea how long or well the whisky was aged, or maybe I just don?t like it.  Either way, I?ll pass on this.

**REVIEW #76: Talisker - 12 year - Distiller?s Edition - 45.8% abv 

Nose: Tobacco, leather, marmalade, peppery spices, soft wood smoke, olive oil, dried fruits, raisins, plums, dried apricot, fruitcake spices, confection

Taste: Spicy, rich, dried fruit, oily mouthfeel, black pepper, herbal, fantastic.

Finish: Good length, pepper and salt, butter and toffee linger.

Score: 89/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Delicious.  A nice step up from the 10yo expression.  Well worth the small bump in cost.

**REVIEW #77: Cardhu - 12 year - 40% abv 

Nose: Pear, sour apple, honey, peach, hint of dry wood smoke

Taste: Semi-oily, then light, thickens to become more oily and mouthcoating again. Honey, sweet, salt, touch of soft peat, but I'm unable to pick out many distinct flavors.

Finish: Sweet lingering peat, cereal, citrus, drying, white pepper heat

Score: 83/100 

Buy a full bottle? No

Closing Thoughts: I like the lightness and sweetness of Dalwhinnie.  If I?m in this neck of the woods, I?m not looking for smoke.

**REVIEW #78: Oban - NAS - Little Bay - 43% abv 

Nose: Orange pith, heather, honey, brine, soft peat, thinner smelling than the 14 yo

Taste: Wet, oily, velvety on the tongue, peat, sweetness, saltiness

Finish: Astringent, harsh on the swallow, drying, lingering something (cereal, hay), acrid aftertaste.  Unpleasant.

Score: 73/100 

Buy a full bottle? Nope.

Closing Thoughts: Not a fan of this one.  Tastes harsh and young.

**REVIEW #79: Johnny Walker - 18 year - Platinum - 40% abv 

Nose: Soft, green apple, heather, citrus, wet hay

Taste: Soft, mellow, wet hay, lemon rind, cereal, nut much going on here.

Finish: Black pepper heat, drying, subtle smoke on the back of the tongue, lingers on the insides of the cheeks.

Score: 83/100 

Buy a full bottle? No

Closing Thoughts: Better than Johnny Walker Black, but overall I?m not a fan.

**REVIEW #80 (re-review): Caol Ila - 12 year - 43% abv 

Nose: Herbal, mint, wood chips, wisps of dry wood smoke, ham steak

Taste: Oily, mouthcoating, a nice dry smoke, some astringency, but very balanced

Finish: Spicy heat, smoke, black pepper, good length

Score: 88/100 

Buy a full bottle? YES!

Closing Thoughts: My first experience with surveying Scotches started on Islay.  Having never tasted a peated or smoky whisky before, I stated that my initial reaction / shock likely threw my ratings out of whack.  I was glad to have the chance to try this highly regarded whisky again now that I?ve got a few more miles on my tastebuds.  One guy at the tasting event remembers this as "the cheaper alternative to Lagavulin".  I guess I can see that logic, but it seems to sell Caol Ila a bit short for having done a good job making a great whisky.  I think it fits nicely between Lagavulin and Laphroaig, though I?d say it?s closer to the Laphroaig/medicinal side of things.  Where Lagavulin is a bonfire of wood smoke, and Laphroaig is a blast of peat? Caol Ila is a more gentle, sophisticated dram where it?s not shouting, but it still makes a good point.

**REVIEW #81 (re-review): Macallan - 18 year - 43% abv 

Nose: I can get lost in this nose for days.  Same as it was before: Dark, heavy, stewed fruit, prunes, cinnamon, nutmeg, cherries, roasted almond, spices, sweet, vanilla, dried citrus peel, jam, raisins, briefest hint of bubble gum, leather coat.

Taste: Cinnamon, salted caramel, peanut brittle, salt/sweet/sour blend, nutmeg, cloves

Finish: Lingering heat, spices, cereal notes, ginger, black tea

Score: 90/100 (no change)

Buy a full bottle? YES!

Closing Thoughts: My in-laws took us to dinner a few weeks after the tasting event and they like to have a drink at the bar before sitting down to eat.  So I asked the bartender what scotches were available.  Glenfiddich 12, Glenfiddich 18, Glenlivet 12, Dewars, and Macallan 18.  Welp? it?s not my money.  :)  A consistent and high quality dram, even if it?s $21/glass at a bar.  Not wanting to push my luck, I ordered a second one with my own cash.

[EDITS: formatting, typos]



D'oh.  I got lost in all the text and forgot the Clynelish.  Adding it now. 

[Edit: Now that I think back... the reason I didn't write a re-review of the Clynelish 14 is because I remember being really impressed with it the first time, but with all the food and the weird whisky combinations (Caol Ila at the same station as Clynelish, for example), my taste buds got all messed up and I didn't care for the Clynelish I tried that night.  It was toward the end of the night and I figure it wasn't a fair opportunity to provide a re-review.  I had had enough by that point.  

I liked Clynelish 14 before, and I'll try it again under different circumstances, so I'm gonna chalk it up to too many flavors in one evening and give it a pass.]



Never got their names.  There was one Master of Whisky.  She was pointed out at the beginning as a good source to talk to about pretty much anything.  I stood next to that table for awhile.  She was the one repeating herself about NAS whisky.

I went hoping to learn something new, but I've learned so much about this topic in the past 6 or 7 months that I'm at the point where I don't know what I don't know, so I don't really know what to ask.  I was hoping for a presentation or lecture, but that wasn't on the agenda.  So Master of Whisky she may be, but I wasn't able to gather much out of the format of the event.



I believe the woman is the only female Master of Whisky.

Tom definitely knows his stuff, learned a lot from him at the tasting we went to a couple of years ago.



I'm remembering her name as something along the lines of Jennifer or Jean.  I can't find a list of Diageo's "Masters of Whisky" to find the name, but I did find a scathing critique of the idea.  

I dunno enough about it to have an opinion.  



I didn't see it before but I don't know if I believe it either.

All I know is the two I've met have been very knowledgeable about the subject.



Talisker Distiller's Edition / 45.8%  ABV / $75

Tasted NEAT, fuck water

This was distilled in 2001, bottled 2012 with the new "blue stripe" label.  Features a double maturation in Amoroso sherry casks, which I read as perhaps oak then sherry or second-fill sherry than fresh?  I don't know, enlighten me!

This is a fantastic Talisker expression--can't recommend it enough.  It tastes less like the sea than regular Talisker, but retains the mouthfeel and pepper.

Rating: 94/100

64th review



ABV: 45.8% 

Price: $83

Distiller: Talisker

Distilled: 2001

Bottled: 2012

Finished in Amoroso casks.

Eye: 
 Medium Amber

Nose:
We start off with a slightly briny, peaty, aroma punctuated with iodine and sherry. As it opens gentle notes of caramel, dark fruit, honey and malt arrive at the scene. The sweetness really comes through and the smoke fades as it opens up and I end up wanting more peat on the nose to restore some of that balance.

Taste:
The peat is a little strange on the palate. It comes roaring out at first just to quickly shy away and chill in the background while caramel and sherry take center stage with malt, citrus, oak, red licorice and mint playing bit parts. Again, I would like it if the smoke was just a bit stronger here too.

Feel:
This is almost as easy as they come. Silken with no burn, just a pleasant warming sensation from beginning to end. A tremendous mouthfeel.

Finish:
Medium-long, slightly dry and composed of sherry, smoke and oak that fades to apricot and wood with a tiny medicinal twinge to it.

Score:
93/100

Overall: 
 I absolutely love this whisky. There is a nice sense of balance and restraint in both the flavors and aromas with everything working together for the most part. My one criticism is that there isn?t enough peat, especially in the nose, but only by a slim margin.



with no age statement

You can just work it out surely? they usually say when it was distilled.



Fair enough. 

I assumed that they might at least share the info on their site, because an enthusiast would know enough to know that old doesn't necessarily equal better, but I take the point, I suppose they have to market as wide as possible even with the speciality products.



To be fair I like the Storm. The NAS aspect I find annoying, and wish they would at least disclose more info on their site, but it's not a deal breaker for me. If it tastes like it's worth it's price I'll buy it and that goes for whisky with an age statement too. I won't buy Macallan 18 because I don't think it's worth the price, especially when the 12 is so damn good (but the 25 is completely worth the price). 

I'm always weary of special editions, but not just for the NAS, but because sometimes they are failed experiments and the distillery puts them out anyways because they don't want to loose money on the batch and that's why I like to try them at bars first.



a "12 year", as that is the youngest allowed age.

What do you mean? The youngest allowed age for scotch whisky is three years, not twelve. But yes, you are right about the 11yo label on this which is nice to know.



Initial Impressions: fruit and malt

Nose: sherry is here, but not the dank musty kind. Almost strawberry, but not quite, it's stuck at grapes I think. A garden shop - geraniums and other potted plants. 

Taste: flat, with a bit of oak entry. Very dry in the mouth, and it takes a while for the sherry to arrive. When it does, it's a bit darker than the nose, but still not dank. Oak and black pepper burn briefly. About half way through the glass, and it starts to turn smokey - not much, just a bit.

Finish: this is interesting. After swallowing, a cinnamon flower blooms and spreads to encompass the entire mouth. Then it burns out, and leaves behind a smoky sweet (fruit) aftertaste.

I'm not sure how well a full bottle of this would hold up over time, but as a sample it was highly enjoyable. That finish was spectacular. I wish I knew for certain if my senses were somehow primed for that or if it could be like that every time.

Score: 94/100

Would I buy it again? At a minimum, another sample is needed to confirm the finish.

my thanks to /u/mapolo29 for the sample



For a second j forgot you were reviewing alcohol...dank...

Great review! This has convinced me that I'd like to try it! 



The DE is by far the best of Talisker's core whiskies, especially in terms of price/performance. It's usually 2/3 the price of the 18 Yr, and in my opinion is almost just as good. 

Thanks for the review! It's a wonderful dram.



Talisker Distillers Edition

(45.8%, ex-bourbon matured + amoroso sherry finished)

?

Thanks to u/Cowtown12 for this sample!

?

Nose: Raisin, brine, blackcurrant, honey, black pepper, thyme, hints of iodine

Taste: Raisin, caramel, black pepper, orange, vanilla, red licorice, malt 

Finish: Salted caramel, black pepper, earth, strawberry

?

The nose on this seems a little shy and on the subtle side. Some dried fruit and sweet berries, mixed with some seaside notes. Light herbal spices partway through. It?s nice so far, just not overly expressive. Bolder in taste, the fruit and other sweet elements receive a welcome boost here, along with the spice. The flavours are pretty consistent with the nose, with the addition of some orange and red licorice near the tail end. Actually, we?ve moved inland now too? slightly more earthy influence rather than seaside here. The peat continues to build in the finish, a light ashy earthiness that settles over the otherwise sweet and spicy theme. 

Man, this is one really crept up and grew on me as things progressed. From the mild (yet pleasant enough) start with the nose, things pick up in a hurry on the palate and continue building in intensity through the finish. An interesting one in that respect, kind of rare in that the taste and finish are much stronger than the nose. By the time I stopped to reflect on the whole experience, it was with a smile on my face. 

?

86/100



it's dangerously drinkable

Completely agree with this statement



By the time I stopped to reflect on the whole experience, it was with a smile on my face.

There's only been few whiskies yet that did this to me. I'm now in the 110s of different whiskies sampled, and Talisker DE, Ardbeg Uigeadail and Corryvreckan, Glenfarclas 25 and a Cadenheads Cragganmore are the only 5 whiskies so far that made me smile like a dumbass.



Talisker 10

One of DIageo?s original ?Classic Malts?, this one represents the Islands region - more specifically, this one is from the Isle of Skye. Fun fact - despite the remote location, this is supposedly Diageo?s most visited distillery. Thanks to /u/ColeAZ for the sample.

10 years old. 45.8% abv. 

Nose - Sweet honey and vanilla notes, wood smoke (reminds me of the smoke from oak chunks off my smoker), somewhat floral, oregano, black pepper, smoked fish. Seems savory as much as sweet. Unique, interesting stuff.

Palate - Sweet honey and vanilla notes lead off. The wood smoke, oregano, and smoked seafood show up as it develops, with a bit of pepperyness. Medium body - a bit more weight to this than the 43% Classic Malts. Again, interesting and unique.

Finish - Gets earthier, smokier, and progressively more peppery, with a bit of oceany salinity (seaweed?) and maybe some lemon making an appearance as well. The finish is a lot of fun.

I?ve always enjoyed this, and if it were less than $65-$70+ near me for an entry level 10 yo single malt it would have a regular spot in my cabinet. There?s nothing else quite like Talisker, and if you?re new to Scotch you owe it to yourself to at least try it at a bar. My bitching about price aside, I do quite enjoy this, especially the finish, which bumps my score a bit (price never factors in to my scores).

88/100

Talisker Distillers Edition

This is similar to the standard 10 yo, but has undergone an additional finishing maturation in amoroso sherry casks (Diageo?s Distiller?s Editions all go through a finishing maturation in some sort of sherry cask). Thank?s again to /u/ColeAZ for the sample.

45.8% abv. This is typically bottled at 11 yo, but can vary depending on the vintage (not sure which vintage this is, hopefully Cole can fill us in).

Nose - A really sweet raisin note (as opposed to an earthier raisin note found in Oloroso matured whisky) first and definitely foremost. Beyond that there is some oceany notes, black pepper, light wood smoke, and some floral notes. Interesting.

Palate - Those sweet raisin notes again lead off, and are rather prominent. As it develops the raisin notes get a bit more tart with some honey and mild black pepper showing up. Medium-plus body - again, a bit more weight than your average 43% Classic malt. Sweet raisin notes kind of drown out others found in the 10 yo a bit.

Finish - Sweet, tart raisins, black pepper that gets progressively more prominent again, some lemon, and a bit of ocean-ness (if that?s a word), and the smokiness finally showing up and really amplifying. The finish is the best part of this one, too.

I enjoy this, but it?s a bit simple, as the amoroso finish seems to have been done at the expense of balance. The amoroso notes taken on their own are tasty, but this one is a less interesting whisky overall than the 10 yo because the smoky, savory, oceany notes aren?t heard as well over them. Fortunately, some of it comes back in a big way on the finish.

86/100

The more Scotch I have, the more I find myself having tastes like Serge - i.e., enjoying the ?cleaner?, spirit driven whiskies more and more, where the distillate gets a bit more of a chance to shine. It?s getting to a point where I see a ?finished? whisky, and my first thought is ?what, this whisky wasn?t good enough via its normal maturation?? That said, I do enjoy heavily sherried whiskies quite well, but I find that finishes are kind of gimmicky and mask some of the complexity that a whisky should have.



It?s getting to a point where I see a ?finished? whisky, and my first thought is ?what, this whisky wasn?t good enough via its normal maturation??

You've tried a lot more whisky than I have, but I'm already in this frame of mind as well. Nice reviews.