Good evening, Scotchit, cpelletier89 here with a celebratory review in response to today?s modding. As part of my swap with Msheinberg I was lucky enough to receive a sample of Talisker 25 year. Once again, if you?ve never been to /r/scotchswap, you?re doing yourself an injustice to not even take a look at what they?ve got to offer.

Talisker 25 year 2011 ed. 45.8%ABV

Ambience: sitting at my computer chair, dog asleep next to me, fianc?e asleep in the next room, Shark Week on the TV next to me and one eye bandaged with a bandana like a Civil War veteran.

Color: Orange amber. Beautiful.

Nose: Sweetened iodine peat, simple syrup, sweet cream, white pepper, light citrus, salty sea spray,  & tasty smoked bacon.

Taste: Very light, oily feel, yet medium body. The first thing I get is light floral notes that quickly give way to heavy peat smoke, iodine and white pepper. Less sweet than the nose, still bits of citrus and fresh apples, but largely overpowered by roasted oak, campfire, bacon-wrapped steak, & BBQ. Part of the taste reminds me of when I unwrap wood chips I?ve soaked for smoking overnight.

Finish: Long and dry, yet savory. It?s got a nice lingering pepper flavor, but with citrus and apple undertones. More wood and peat smoke. Very ideal finish that really sums up the experience balancing the pepper, peat, and sweetness.

Overall: I?m extremely lucky to have gotten a chance to try this malt. It?s wonderfully complex, balanced, yet each component of the experience brings its own profile that leads to a bit more of a flow to drinking this dram. The nose tells you most of what?s to come, but not all, which I really like. Some of the nuances don?t show until late in the taste or finish. A great dram to cap off an interesting, yet fantastic day.

Total: 92/100



Humanitys darkest day

Great review! I tried this at Stockholm Beer & Whisky festival and I have to say, after Ardbeg I think Talisker together with Lagavulin snatches a well earned second place.



Thoughts of that picture will keep me up at night for weeks.

I had never drank Talisker before and this was fantastic.



Naturally. That's alright though. The balance in this dram is what really wowed me though.

Up next is your mystery dram!



Hi all, I saw a Talisker vertical from /u/Dukedesu and thought I'd join in the fun! Talisker is a favourite amongst malt mates for sure, but reviews of the older stuff is hard to come by. So here we go!

Talisker 18, 45.8% ABV

Nose: Pepper, some brine and sweet heather, dried mango and pineapple also maybe? A bit of farmyardy smell, but not in a rough, immature sense.

Palate: Quite subtle, sweet and then dry in the arrival with oak and brine/coalsmoke. In the middle more volcanic/coalsmoke, then sweet again with toffee, grass and some fruit also.

Finish: Becomes peppery and dry, Not particularly long

Overall: Much more "Talisker" than the 25, has a great balance between the aged character and the raw salty/smokiness of the Talisker spirit. 

A This is a top notch Talisker, I recommend everyone to give it a try. The spirit really benefits from age. it is very smooth, drinkable and complex. However recent price increases are worrying me!

Talisker 25, 2009 Release, 54.8% ABV

Bottle 1184/5862, bottled from refill casks

Nose: Soft but powerful, a velvet glove masking the raw Talisker spirit. Obviously much more oak influence than the 18. Soft salty smokiness, a hint of white pepper. Cocoa butter with a tannic vanilla-oak sweetness. Really gets up the nose, especially the old oaky notes giving tropical fruit. Wonderfully fragrant and floral/leafy. 

Palate: Chocolate, sweet refill oak, icing sugar, fragrant peatsmoke and a pinch of salted burnt toffee. Pinch of white pepper again. Rhubarb candies, incense and a saltiness towards the end. A gentle salty/volcanic smokiness builds in the background with every sip.

Finish: Very fragrant, cedar cigar box, scented tobacco, salted cream-filled crackers, salty & dry while retaining elegance. Long, long and long!

Overall: A bit unfair to compare, but the 18 really highlights how good the 25 is. Simply spectacular.

A , because while it is excellent, at this price it needs to be much better to justify re-purchase!



I sure don't. Used to understand it without being able to speak it. I basically refused to learn.

all my regret



Thanks for the heads up! These are excellent reviews, for sure!

I'm delighted to see that you also had many parallel thoughts regarding the 18 and 25 years. I also thought it was interesting to see the drop in ABV from 57.2% to 54.8% from the 2005 to the 2009 releases. Additionally, is there a specific reason for the decreased bottle amounts?



Thanks!

About the ABV difference, I think they just vat the casks they have picked and release it at that strength without adding any water, so it's not unusual for the ABV to change between years.

No idea about the # of bottles released, maybe to do with stock? They did start releasing the 30 year from 2006 so perhaps they kept more back for older releases?



Alright folks, sorry for the unrelenting spam tonight. These two reviews make numbers 59 and 60 for me! I previously reviewed the Talisker 2012 Distillers Edition and here I've got the 18 and 25 year offerings. Here is what I found:

Talisker 18, 46% ABV, Island

Nose: Raw, earthy peat. Lemon rind, pinesol. Dusty brine and kipper oil.

Palate: Smoke, sea salt mist. Forest fire. Peppery zinfandel. Mellow oak. Hickory smoked chicken skin. Very mellow

Finish: Cigar and hickory ash. Dusty leather and stale sultanas. Carries on, like a wood burning stove laboring on through the winter night.

92/100

Talisker 25, 54.8% ABV, Island

Nose: Peat, subdued iodine, smoke. Orange ash. Flambe (bananas foster). Lemon cleaner, stale pepper. Dust and brine.

Palate: Thin at first, then oily indeed. Quite smokier and peatier than I expected at 25 years of age. Vegetal, grassy. BBQ pork renderings. Bright lemon zest and shaved almonds.

Finish: Ancient dust, hot white pepper. Vegetal peat, smoke dulls away. Sweet lemonade. Smoke leaves your mouth feeling like a fire damaged house... in an awesome way.

93/100

I'm surprised that I found the 18 to be rated so close to the 25, but they're both superb drams. Thanks to /u/Brettrick for the 18 sample and /u/Ardbeg_Head for the sample of 25.



Talisker 25 / 57.2% ABV / $99

Tasted neat, with bottled water

This is one of the last cask-strength Talisker 25 bottlings, bottled in 2005 (no 14,422/15,600) at natural strength, NCF, from refill oak casks.  This particular bottle was procured from Warehouse Wine & Spirits after Hurrican Sandy, and so is featured sans-box and with water-damaged label as their warehouse was partially flooded. WW&S is notorious for having bought nearly all available Talisker in the North American market.

The mood is a quiet, warm-for-NYC sunday afternoon listening to Stadium Arcadium.

I highly recommend a dash of water in this--it really opens it up to deliciousness. Sadly, you will not be able to find this locally for anything better than 46% ABV at $250, which is a shame for Talisker lovers who want to try the entire range.

The first time I really liked whisky, I was trying a Talisker 10 because that's James Bond's favourite dram.  And I loved the fiery iodine, peat, and most of all pepper.  To this day, I recommend without reservation Talisker 10, 18 and my new affordable favourite, the Distiller's Edition aged in a bit of sherry.  The latter is affordable and fantastic.

Rating: 89/100

88th review



Ah, yeah. Talisker's the one that did it for me. I started off with blends and my first single malt was Mac 12. I told my friend: Well I guess I'm just a blend guy.

Then he brought over some Talisker 10. And I fell in the deep end.

We still have some laughs over my Blend Guy absurdity.



For my 40th review, I've chosen  It's the 25 year old Talsiker original bottling release from 2005. Yeah, I'm excited about this one.

ABV: 57.2%

Color: Amber -1

Aroma Neat:
Peat, Oak, Oranges, Ash, Wood Smoke, Tobacco, Cedar, White Pepper, Devil's Food Cake, Vanilla, Salt, Mulch, Hot Oatmeal, Nutmeg, Cinnamon, Stewed Apples, Bosc Pears, Lemon, Sweet Malt (after a few minutes).

Definitely more reserved, compared to the more raw and assertive Talisker 10 OB. This has "older" flavors like tobacco and very prominent wood notes. A complex and mature nose that's not very sweet.

Aroma Water:
Peat, Malt Barley (lots), Bee's Wax, Black Pepper, Apples, Vanilla, Oak, Brown Spice, Cedar, Mild Cigars, Nougat, Honey, Baklava, Walnuts, Sourdough, Caramel, Ricola, Black Liquorice, Ash.

Another nice and deep nose. This is a bit fruitier and maltier than neat.

Taste Neat: 
Peat, Strong Oak, High Taninns, Brown Sugar, Bitter Malt, Candle Wax, Caramel, Brown Sugar, Vegetal.

A very mature profile, with signature Talisker peat plus lots of wood. It's what you'd expect for a 25 year old Talisker and is pretty drinkable even at cask strength.

Taste Water: 

Malt, Ash, Smoke, Peat, Caramel, Barley Sugar, Wax Vanilla, Ground Black Pepper, Curry, Dark Honey, Molasses, Bitter Herbs, Oak, Light Brown Sugar.

Yeah, it's delicious. It's what you'd expect, plus a lot more good stuff.

Finish:
Peat, Ash, Cigarette Smoke, Maduro Wrapper, Old Oak, Cedar, Cracked Pepper, Sulfur.

Excellent finish of medium-long duration. It's smokey, phenolic, woody, and peaty, but dangerously smooth.

Conclusion:
Exquisite nose.

A very tamed Talisker palate, which is still very robust compared to whisky in general.

Delicious tobacco, smokey, woody finish.

Rating: 90/100

A deeply complex and tasty whisky. A good as it is, I like about equally to the Talisker 10. If you twist my arm, this is a bit better.The youth of the 10 year old makes for a bolder, peatier, dram that still hold's its own in terms of complexity. Still, this is a truly excellent whisky as well, and a great example of how Talisker ages well. Oh, by the way, this will run you about 180 USD a bottle, about 3 times that of the 10 year old.

Josh

blog



Jeeze! $99 is a bargain!

I'll be in the NYC area the next few days, where's this Warehouse place?



Talisker 25 year (2005 Bottling) - 57.2%, $450 

Nose: Coastal, fruity berry and stone fruit, peaches, apricots, slight plum. Baked pie crust, salted lemon zest. Faint smoke from a distant fire.

Taste: Chili pepper spice, coastal brine, salt, berry pie, slight earthy peat, smooth. Full mouthfeel.

Finish:  The chili pepper stays though the whole finish until just at the end then light currant berry as it fades. Mouthwatering all though the finish. Long length.

Notes: This confirms my love for Talisker. Shows that pepper strongly. Despite the notes it?s actually quite mellow yet complex. Harmony in a glass. Age looks good on a Talisker. Beautiful, just beautiful. 

92/100



Thanks to /u/kdz13 for the sample, it?s awesome to try a malt like this!

Warmed up with a little Talisker 10yr ? nice, malty, smoky; a little saccharinny on the finish, but it?s a solid entry level. I?d recommend it over Ardbeg 10yr as an intro to peat, but it?s becoming a little harder to find (and overpriced when it?s there). Anyway, the 25yr is the oldest Talisker I?ve tried (except what they supposedly blended into 3yr Deluxe?), and if I recall correctly, this is an older bottling as they?ve swapped to bottling at 45.8 for modern bottled. Feel free to correct me if I?m wrong ? haven?t done too much research on the topic. Anyway ? on with the show!

?

Talisker 25yr ? 58.1%

?

Scoring legend:



Yeah, that was largely tongue in cheek ;) 

I haven't run into issues with oxidation to that extent yet. Even my Tali 10yr I had open for 2 years had a good amount of smoke on it towards the end of the bottle.



Oh wow. I've tried the more modern 25's bottled at 45.8%, don't really see many of these around anymore. 

I found it to be a great whisky as long as you don't go into it expecting a Talisker. On the lower proof 25's I didn't get much smoke on the palate at all.



Last night I went with a friend to a Talisker tasting. I've been to one before, but I didn't take notes for everything, and I really like Talisker, so glad to go again. This was put on by Diageo's importer here as they're expanding the range of Taliskers here (up until now was just the 10yo and Storm). 

The lineup was the 10yo, Storm, 2014 DE, 18yo, 57 North and the 25yo. I've already put notes here for some so the ones listed here are the ones I haven't.

Talisker Storm

Aged 3 years, 45.8%

Nose: New make. Charred wood. Smoked fish. Vanilla custard. Banana. Brine. Honey. 

Palate: Hot. Pepper. Mineral salt. Wet wood. Burned fruit. 

Finish: Medium-long. Dry wood. Lots of salt. Light smoke. 

Talisker 2014 Distiller's Edition

Aged 10 and a bit years, 45.8% ABV, Finished in Amoroso Casks

Nose: Very sweet. Vanilla cream. Banana liquor. Red fruits. Roasted something sweet. Thick wine tannins. Turkish delight.

Palate: A bit flat. Charcoal. Salmon. Salt. Dry wood. Sherry funk. 

Finish: Medium. Dry wood. Char. Cough syrup. Figs.

Talisker 25

Aged 25 years, 45.8%ABV

Nose: Dry straw. Rich wood. Old spice cologne. Light salt. Slate. Salt. Nutty. Bit of pepper. 

Palate: Rubber. Charcoal. Dry wood. Toffee. Salt. Smoked salmon. 

Finish: Medium. Salt. Charcoal. Dry wood. Pecans. 

Conclusions:

The storm is typical NAS trash, it works a little better than most because the Talisker profile is good young, but still, strong notes of new make (I also tasted the new make last night :) ), too young and the 10yo is much better for not much more money.

The DE was nice, a bit sweet for my tastes, but very nice. Just felt like the nose was far more complex than everything else.

The 25yo was very good. It's not much of a Talisker anymore, but it still has a bit of a smoky profile and has all the hallmarks of a good, well-aged malt.



Bottled at 57.2%. Thanks to /u/still_fiction for the sample. Unfortunately, 2009 I believe was the last year these were bottled at cask strength (thanks again, Diageo?).

Nose - Really complex and balanced. Honey, caramel, vanilla, lots of black pepper, fish sauce, light smoke, dry wood, and some apricot in the background. Not all that powerful, despite the strength, but very nice. Honey is more prominent, and the salty note becomes more oceany than fish sauce-y with water.

Palate - Surprisingly sweet and fruity right off the bat - the honey, caramel, apricot, and vanilla, with some big spicy notes - black pepper and poblano - and smoky fish sauce notes as it develops. Medium body - lighter than I expected, even neat. Smoke is toned down, with the fish sauce note giving way to a more ?normal? oceany note again with water. Better balance and complexity with water.

Finish - Gets fairly spicy here - big black pepper and ginger notes, with a bigger smoke note, fish sauce/brine (more fish sauce-like without water), drying oak, and the sweet/fruity elements described earlier as well. 

So I?ve rather enjoyed the Talisker 18 for its complexity and balance, though I felt like it was missing a little something. The 57N had the power I was looking for, but not quite the complexity...this one put it together a bit more, especially once some H20 was added. Prior to that, the fish sauce note was a bit strong, but with water this really balanced out and integrated well.

92/100



complex but balanced. It gives you a little bit of everything without being muddy/confusing.

I agree, but I found it really needed water to be all of those things, and my score is reflective of how it was at its best, so to speak. Without water, it was much more muddy/confusing.



I was meeting up with /u/Devoz to do an in-person swap and we decided to meet at the summerhill LCBO in toronto to hit up the tasting tower there. these reviews won't be as detailed given the quick nature of the tasting, and i didnt get to take pictures, so i had to take stock photos from the web. 

Decided to have a couple drams, and when we saw they had Talisker 25 available, both of us decided we needed to try it. $6 for a quarter ounce (though the lady there was great and probably gave us 1/3 to 1/2 ounce each) which sure beats spending $430 on a bottle! let's see how it stacked up!

Appearance:  didn't get much of a chance to evaluate the colour as it was still a very small pour. Pretty light. 

Nose:  lots of the same notes I find in the talisker 10 and 57N? briney sea water, light coastal peat, some peppery notes, lots of oakiness.

Taste: flavour is what you'd expect from the nose and from previous exposure to Talisker spirit. Lots of briney seawater, coastal peat, some peppery notes. The big difference between this and the 10yr is the oak has influenced it a lot more and you get lots of tannic notes and tons of oak. 

Finish: finish was somewhat spicy and moderate in length

Rating: 89  

I'm actually scoring this a point lower than the 10yr. I enjoyed it immensely but the score takes value for money into account. It didn?t' blow me away as significantly superior to the 10yr. It's a fantastic whisky, but not one I'd ever buy at that price. 

the second malt I tried at the tasting tower was the Port Charlotte Heavily Peated Scottish Barley. I'd never had a PC before, but love Bruichladdich products, so I though I'd give it a shot. 

Appearance:  pretty light colour. 

Nose:  first impression was it's a very sweet and floral peat. Some iodine-ish notes. Smells pretty flavourful. 

Taste: again, probably the sweetest peat I've tasted. Some medicinal qualities, but very floral. Quite oily and thick on the palate. Some fruit? light and tropical tasting. 

Finish: bit of smoke in the finish and that same sweet peat. 

Rating: 83  

this was flavourful and tasty but not what I was expecting or hoping for. Having loved the laddie ten and some Octomore, I expected.. More. This was pretty basic and very sweet for an Islay. I enjoyed it, but likely wouldn't buy a bottle. 

overall, had a lot of fun. hope to meet up with /u/Devoz and other GTA area folks at the tasting tower again soon. it was fuN!



i know, right?! it was my first time visiting. 

a few of the flagship locations have counters where you can pay for 1/4 ounce samples of a whole ton of bottles. they probably had close to 40 bottles of scotch you could sample from. (limited to 2 samples per day sadly). 

so i got some talisker 25 (and she was generous in her pouring on that one) for $6 and the PC for $1.75