Greetings, malt mates! Thatguy here with a review of a mystery dram courtesy of /u/Father_Boddingtons. He sent this to me a month or two ago and has been asking me to review it ever since. I finally got around to doing so this week so let's see what we've got here.

Mystery Dram ? 46%+ alcohol by volume?

I really like the sweet and salty thing going on here. It works really well with this whisky which has to be coastal. I would guess a Bunnahabhain, Old Pulteney, or a Tobermory but he said that I'd never try this whisky on my own so it must be from Islay. One of the many Bruichladdichs maybe?

SCORE: 89/100



I'm glad you liked it.  I'll admit I was a little sneaky in saying that you wouldn't try this whisky on your own. It's not that I didn't think you'd try it, but because I knew you couldn't get it shipped to you. So I'm sorry if I totally threw you off with that "hint"...so without further ado, it's this.

Props to /u/Trexid for taking such gorgeous photos.  Obviously yours came from a different bottle...can't remember which one off the top of my head, 61?



Evening Scotchit! I've got a quick review tonight of a powerful Speyside Whisky to share some notes on. I wrote this review last month but never got around to posting it. Cheers

Tamdhu 8 Year 2005 Signatory first fill Sherry Speyside Single Malt - ABV 60.6% NAT CLR, NON-Chill Filtered

Enjoyed Neat

Color: Amber +1

Nose: Big sweet berries, dessert buffet, sugar syrup, sweet sherried oak, powdered sugar, strudel, 

Taste: Sweet intro of creamy berries, warms up quick, deep dark fruits, sweetened pomegranate, cherry cola

Finish: Long finish, sweet and succulent sherry blast, big warm white pepper, cherry cordials, 

Summary
Fantastic stuff, a bruiser of a Speyside! This is my first Tamdhu and Signatory did a great job with this stuff. If you're wondering how I tasted this whisky with a sealed bottle and an empty Glencairn it's because I sampled a friends bottle which convinced me to pickup a full one. I'm going to leave this one sealed for a bit until I need a shovel to the face of Speyside whisky :)

Score  

94/100
Review #71



It's just before midnight here in Chicago and for the first time in a few days the house is quiet since everyone else is asleep. I've been enjoying some of my recent swapped drams immensely recently but I haven't popped open anything new in a short while.

Based on texacer's scathing review of this malt I simply had to buy a bottle and see if it was as bad as he made out.

Tamdhu 2005, Aged 8 years

Signatory Cask Strength Collection

First Fill Sherry Butt #346; Bottle 2 of 615

ABV: 60.6%

Region: Speyside

Nose: Jones Cream Soda. Caramel. Fresh, crisp green apples. Rich toffee. Mild wood spice. Where the hell is that ABV hiding?

Palate: Thick and chewy. Present but not overwhelming sherry. Bowl of fresh red berries with whipped cream. Bold nutty spice.

Finish: Medium-long length, very warming, full of sweet fruit and a zing of oak spice. Lingering malty sweetness.

96/100

Honestly this is the best thing I've had in months. At 8 years of age I was expecting a tasty but brutish young Speyside and wound up with a luxuriously rich and confident malt.

Seriously either someone dropped a tray of grandma's pies into the barrel filler or they bought a magical cask, but either way this fuckin' rocks and Tamdhu is officially on my radar.

Uh, I mean it sucked. Don't bother.



Why do you think I'm posting this at midnight on a Tuesday?

I mean... wow. Butt #346 must have just been a unicorn of a cask. I hope my next experiences with Tamdhu can live up to this one.



I know the feeling. Last November I had ~8 open bottles and worked to clear them out. Now I've got ~35 open bottles. (I think I messed up somewhere.) Wine preserver seems to be doing its job, though. 

If our location was more permanent everything I have would be open. As it stands I've got limited bar space and I'm already dreading the transport of 80 bottles in various states of open-ness in a few months.



I've hit my limit of space in my cabinet. Hell, I actually exceeded it this month by buying some more bottles that just will not fit (I blame the 4 bottles of booze my SO keeps in there). 

I think that's probably a good thing, though, since blowing ?300 a month on whisky when I already have 40 bottles probably isn't healthy financial planning.

I'll drink some Caol Ilas this week, take a reference sample and pour the rest into my solera bottle. 



I'm right there with you-- a few months ago my cabinet fit all ~20 bottles I owned, now it's holding 40, 15 are lined up on top of it, and another 20-30 are in a closet in another room. 

Some day my wife and I will be settled and I'll build some nice shelving. I'm not interested in being a collector of sealed bottles, but I love the idea of having a massive open bottle stash to suit whatever my fancy of the day is.



It was actually butt #350. Popped it yesterday just to try it out. It's good - reminds me of the MoM Benrinnes 14 I have, might have to do a side-by-side. 

At the price I got it, it might actually be worth stocking up on, since the girlfriend will probably like it too.



That's not all I bought from them because of you, either. At 10% commission they owe you at least $50.

I'm only reselling them for $180/each. ;)



I actually only bought one on Tex's recommendation. I was sipping on it last night while I wrote up my review, opened a new tab and ordered two more. Too cheap to give up.

As far as shipping goes, I'm guessing two bottles costs $8-15 each? At $75 after shipping it's easily still worth the dough. Moreso than some other bottles I've spent $75 on pre-tax and pre-shipping.



Greetings, r/scotch! Rmill3r here with another whisky review. While I've had samples, I've really not had the chance to dive headfirst into the world of IBs . . . until recently. This is the first of a few for me. I believe /u/Texacer wishes me to make sure you all understand how atrocious this stuff is. Let this be a warning . . .  

Tamdhu 8 Sigantory 2005 First Fill Sherry, Speyside Single Malt Scotch Whisky; Cask Strength; Distilled on: 27/01/2005; Bottled on: 22/08/2013; Cask No. 346; Bottle No. 88 of 615; 60.6% abv; unchilfiltered; natural color; $59.99 for a 750mL bottle; enjoyed a neat dram

Color: Light amber

Nosing: Blueberry candy, floral handsoap, cream soda, salted vanilla, soft toffee, vanilla ice cream with raspberries

Tasting: Hot, fizzy, rootbeer, dark sherried oak, raspberry jam, a spicy rub (almost mesquite)

Finish: Long but soft and soothing, very fruity with more berries

Score: 86/100

Independent bottlings have wowed me so far. It's like rediscovering whisky all over again, because you realize the amount of creativity and freedom these small companies get. This particular bottle caught my eye before Tex blew the cover on it, because it comes with excellent stats at a killer price tag. Tamdhu itself is one of those barely-hanging-on distilleries that apparently are trying to reinvent themselves as a more classic Scottish whisky. I've heard it's bad. 

Signatory, of course, has done some wondrous things with this batch. It's liquid candy with just the right amount of spice. Still, I feel like whatever it is that made Tamdhu lose its business is still there, lurking underneath the surface. Just good thing Signatory masked it with their black magic. 

Not disappointed at all, but I'll simply file this under a well-taken risk. 

Scotch whisky review #97

Whisky reviews #130



This is: my first Tamdhu, a Speyside distillery that likes 8yo bottlings for some reason. However, Signatory bottled this one ? from a single first-fill sherry cask ? at cask strength. Sounds promising. 61.4%ABV, $60  

Color: gold-amber.  

Nose: raw... alcohol, chigarid, raisin-sherry oak, and cornhusk.  

Taste: peppery & sweet... cinamon, lots of malt, red pepper, and honey.  

Finish: sherry... big raisin, definite unripe banana, unripe strawberry, walnut, and dark chocolate.  

Conclusions: like a mix of Balvenie 15 and Macallan Cask Strength although less refined than either. Wonderfully powerful. Immature, but very drinkable without any water added, I'm going to put him at Aberlour a'Bunadh and Glenfarclas 105's level, which is impressive ? and for $20 cheaper than either, it's a steal. 89/100



I'm finally getting around to reviewing a few of the drams /u/bigmoneysalsa sent for my secret Santa gift (thank you!).  I know that at least a few of them were bottles he was sort of trying to get rid of, but some of them I am less sure about.  First up is a Signatory bottling of Tamdhu, 8 years old, and at cask strength of 60.6%.

Initial Impressions: wow, some r/scotch celebrities really like this one

Nose: candy, sherry, quite intense.  Fruitcake, cinnamon, malt, dry wood, and figs.  

Taste: up front sherry, but that steps back quickly.  Toffee and gourmet fruit flavored hard candy (or cherry cough drops if you drink at your normal pace - slow down!), powdered cherry cream filled doughnuts.  

Finish: I mean, it's 120 proof, yeah, it'll burn.  Red fruit, cinnamon, spearmint, fade to wrinkly sherry raisins, oak, and candy in the later aftertaste. 

Hey, look, I don't really like sherry bombs.  This is almost a sherry bomb, but I'd actually be quite interested to taste the base spirit at cask strength in a more neutral (or at least more tired) cask.  The underlying spirit does seem to have a bit of vibrant attitude to it, but I'm having a hard time digging down that far.  

Score: 86.3/100

Would I buy it again? For me, probably not a first fill sherry.  But a 5th fill or an ex-bourbon or french oak cask would interest me greatly.

I scored this higher than I expected to.  It really benefits from the slower paced sipping of the review process ? too powerful to drink casually, honestly.  In fact, my best impression of it was when taking extremely tiny sips artificially slowed to a pace even slower than my usual pace for a review.



I like sherry bombs. Cask strength ones are even better. I have open bottles of Macallan Cask Strength, Glenfarclas 105, and Aberlour A'bunadh on my whisky shelf. Macallan Cask Strength is my favorite scotch, and Glenfarclas 105 is probably in the top 5. In an attempt to acquire some less common ones, I tried going after some IB CS sherry bombs. /u/dustlesswalnut was awesome enough to hook me up with a bottle of the Signatory Tamdhu 8, and I got a sample of AD Rattray Benrinnes 14 in a swap with /u/thatguy142. 

So I did a five way blind tasting of all of the whiskies listed above. I went into it well acquainted with the three on my shelf, having only tried the Tamdhu once or twice, and without ever having had a Benrinnes before. I smelled each one and was greated with smells of varying familiarity until...something totally new. And it was amazing. I got nervous. 

I took a taste of the one that smelled new to me. Shit. I've definitely never had this before. And it's amazing. Instantly I knew Macallan CS's title was in jeopardy. I continued the tasting and managed to get all five correct, but also did a direct comparison between the new delicious nectar and my beloved Macallan CS. Has the champion been unseated???

All this will be revealed at the end, but first a proper review of the Tamdhu and Benrinnes. 

Signatory Tamdhu 8

Strength: 60.6%

Color: Orange brown. 

Nose: Chocolate oranges, dried fruits, and an interesting tequila note that helped me pick it apart from the others when I had it blind. 

Palate: Fiery on the palate, with a drier mouthfeel than some of it's peers. Raisins and dark chocolate. Cloves and crumbly sweet pastry, somewhere between pie crust and bread pudding. This is the maltiest of the sherry bombs I've tried. 

Finish: Hot, with fruit and some oak. Lingers for awhile. 

Summary: Either this whisky is growing on me, or some aeration from having the bottle open for awhile has improved this dram. It's young and hot and a little harsh, but the malty sherry is quite nice. This is along the lines of what I wanted Amrut Intermediate Sherry to be. Initially I was a little disappointed with this whisky, but I'm feeling a good bit happier to have a bottle on my shelf after this review. 

Score: 92/100 

AD Rattray Benrinnes 14

Strength: 55.2%

Color: A redder brown. 

Nose: Juicy. Wow. Fruit jams. Petite Sirah wine. Red berries. Strawberry shortcake. 

Palate: Oily and velvety, coating my mouth. Huge juicy fruit and wine flavors. Chocolate-covered a?ai berries and spice. Sweetened cranberries. Pomegranate juice. The palate combines the best of sherried scotch and big juicy red wines. 

Finish: Big chocolate and oak flavors come to the forefront in the finish, with raisins and dried spices. Cinnamon graham crackers. It doesn't last forever, but it hangs out long enough to be quite satisfying. 

Summary: After trying only a small sip in my blind tasting before, I've been super hesitant to pour this dram, because I've only got one sample and Binny's is all sold out of the bottles. If Benrinnes 23 is seriously a cut above this, I have to seriously consider making a large purchase from Master of Malt before that's gone too. 

Score: 97/100 

Macallan Cask Strength has been dethroned. I'd really like to get a bottle of this one. Maybe I'll spring for another Benrinnes. Thanks for reading, and here are my blind tasting results. 

Scotch Reviews #40 & 41

Whisky Reviews #63 & 64

@review_bot



Benrinnes 23 is very different - much more winey and dry oak tannins. I wasn't a huge fan, but those aren't descriptors I'm generally a fan of.

The batch of Benrinnes 14 that was released last year through a bunch of IBs is probably one of the best whiskies I've ever tried. Even this year's Darkness! release from MoM was incredibly good (I believe it was the same batch).

It's the kind of whisky that has set a high water mark in my life. 



LetThereBeR0ck's previous reviews:

Please report any issues to /u/FlockOnFire



I don't think it's overrated, but I do think that the Benrinnes 14 is better. Which cask strength sherry bombs have you had and how would you rank them?

For me it goes:

AD Rattray Benrinnes 14

Macallan Cask Strength

Glenfarclas 105

Signatory Tamdhu 8

Aberlour A'bunadh



I forget, are you in the US?  

I.... just got another today...



Yep, east coast. 

Another Laphroaig or another Benrinnes?



Petite Sirah wine as a tasting note for the nose?

You, sir, are a fucking hero.
(I'm kind of obsessed with PS).



Hell yes it smelled like Petite Sirah! It had a wine-that-is-guaranteed-to-stain-your-teeth-with-its-juicy-fruitiness kind of quality, what can I say? 

I dig some Petite Sirah as well, and the huge juicy flavor that I like so much is what I found in this scotch, particularly the nose. Beautiful. 



What are some of your favorites?

Happy to swap recs with you on that as well.

BTW, the Big Bottom Bourbon Red Tape Edition is aged in PS casks.  It's pretty tasty -- I just wish I could taste an older version of the whiskey with the same finish.



I'm terrible at keeping track of wines since so few both leave a big enough impression for me to try again and are readily available for a repeat purchase. I've had some really kick-ass petite sirahs before, but I'd be hard pressed to remember what many of them are called. I know I liked the Petite Petite. I've got a bottle of PS from Orfilla winery when I toured it that I've been aging for a few years and I'm looking forward to popping. Non-petite sirah wines I like a lot are the Justin Isosceles, Molly Dooker The Boxer, and for a cheap bottle good ole Apothic Red.  

I drink a lot more whisky than wine these days. 



Me too.  It all started about 14 months ago when my wife got pregnant...

Check out some stuff from Vincent Arroyo, particularly their Rattlesnake Acres blend.  I also like the ones from Robert Biale, Stillman Brown/Black Zeppelin, Kent Rasmussen, and Tercero.  Jeff Runquist's "R", 4 Vines Heretic (not regular) are also pretty good.



From Ontario, Canada. 

Macallan CS, if available, is 100CAD. The Benrinnes for me was 100USD. 

At least we get free health care. 



Greetings Scotchit! The last of texacer's mystery dram reviews is tonight. It's been a fun series - I like this style of reviewing a lot more than I thought I would. Granted, there have been some fairly familiar whiskies, but there have been some curveballs too. Amrut Kadhambam anyone? 

Anyway, last review. Is this any good? And, more importantly, will this introduction end with my catchphrase? 

Let's find out! (Yes. Yes, it will.)

texacer's Mystery Dram #8
???, 2oz sample from /u/texacer

Nose: Cask strength. Youthful. Sherry. Toffee and apricot. Honey. Sweet malt. Light brown oakiness. Raisins. 

Taste: Cask strength, slightly thin mouthfeel. Prickly. Sweet malt. Apricot and sherry. Sherry and toffee. Sherry. Sweet malt. Also, sherry. White pepper and cinnamon.

Finish: Long and strong. Prickly and young. Sherry and toffee. Malt. Pepper and allspice. Apricot and raisins. 

Summary: You know what, this is still Tamdhu 8. It's still young, it's still sherried, it's still sweet and fruity. So fuck yesterday's guess (which I still stand by) - this is Tamdhu 8 Signatory CS. On the palate and finish, much spicier, but still pretty delicious. Yeah, this is probably Tamdhu 8, but I could be wrong. 

It's great stuff, and very much equal to the cask that I have a bottle of. 'nuff said. As good as the Kadhambam yesterday, same score.

In conclusion, I thought texacer was much more of a peat guy, but it turns out he looooves his sherry. I can only recall 1 peated whisky out of all the 8, and a ton of sherried ones. If I'd have sent 8 drams to someone, it would probably be roughly the opposite.

Anyway, thanks for the swap texacer. It was a pretty great one!

Score: 86/100
Great.

Buy Again? Sure, at under ?60 at the moment, it's a steal.



A'bunadh is much more full-on sherried, where the Tamdhu 8 is more toffee and malt. Sweeter, not as winey.

If that explains it. Also, the A'bunadh is super hot, IMO. This is much less so - it's perfectly drinkable without water. 



Hello Scotchit, Texacer here with another quick review.  What does Texacer like?  Cask Strength.  Sherry casks.  Aged between 7 and 15 years.  Lively.  Inexpensive but not Cheap.  Nonchill Filtered.  Natural Color!  Whisky that has all that attracts me. I'm more likely to gamble on a full bottle when I know these things are taken into consideration.  I know Signatory does it right, I trust them.  So I didn't even hesitate to order a bottle of  Tamdhu 8 year 2005 Signatory first fill Sherry 60.6%abv, because it has all these things. $59.99

what is this?! candy?  I've never had a Tamdhu in my life but just by reading the label it spoke to me.  I took the small gamble and boy did it pay off.  Its thick and chewy, with a very unique palate.  Tamdhu flies under the radar but recently went through an overhaul.  according to their website: LINK they are reinventing themselves.  I can't speak for that because this is an IB. 

95/100

additional.  like i said in a review a little while ago... all I mostly have right now is REAL GOOD whisky to review.  its confusing a bit when everything you drink is so good.  you need the bitter to appreciate the sweet sometimes.  I'll explore this more in my next 5 reviews... this weekend...  all from the same distillery... all knockouts.  stay turned for reviews 296, 297, 298, 299 and 300!



thats what dworgi said

I wonder how well they match



That one is different to mine, different cask and higher ABV. Ours were like, totally sitting next to each other in the dunnage warehouse.

I''ll review it after the Amrut Single Cask Peated Portpipe which I'm finding to be really disappointing. Don't buy any.



i dont know if i believe you.

don't buy benrinnes. 



Boutique-y?  theres an IB that looks stupid to me. 

anyway I thought you loved shrooms? 



The labels are cool. This one was only about ?25 because MoM love me and I get special pricing. 

I like mushroomy notes, that's why it got a high score.



Damn... I already did. Not opened yet though. Is yours cask #2713?

I hadn't noticed it was peated until reading your comment either >< I just saw Amrut single cask and threw my money at them.



I just saw Amrut single cask and threw my money at them.

That's exactly what I did! I also have the Bourbon and PX. Not sure about cask number but it's the European bottlings. Don't worry, it's good ;)



You don't remember this?: http://www.reddit.com/r/Scotch/comments/140adc/laphroaig_16_year_old_signatory_cask_strength/
Incidentally, do you happen to the know the cask# of that sample? Mine is 42.

Anyway, really can't wait to try this Tamdhu.



oh yeah that was a sample from MoM!

now I have a full bottle of the 1997 :)  omg



Nice review. Sounds amazing and tasty, even for a young one.

Where did you find this? 



No such thing as too much good whisky-- this sounds like a real treat. 

Edit: A hint to anyone that wants to buy me some whisky. This, please and thank you.



How do you feel about rating something 100/100?

I'd like to think I'm reserving it for a whisky that will make me want to throw the rest of my collection away, but in reality that's simply never going to happen. If I'm honest with myself anything I've rated above 94 would probably be a 100/100.



Thanks to /u/LetThereBeR0ck for a sample of this one. I also stole his picture. Because I'm a horrible person. Go upload something he's done lately, it'll make me feel less like a heel.

Yeah, don't buy this. It's made forcibly by evil terrorists who liquefy cute, endangered animals and steal cancer cures.

Tamdhu is a whisky distillery located in the town of Knockando.  That may sound similar to the other distillery there, but this is a different distillery where people give you the evil eye just for sneezing.

It's an evil place.

As of April 2010, Superman and the forces of good shut down Tamdhu, and turned to stopping Signatory from stepping on baby ocelots. In 2013, it was reopened, as Cthulhu deemed it necessary to bring about the end of the universe.

So I'm doing you all a favour by reviewing this and telling you how bad it is.

Such a favour.

Price: N/A in Ontario, or anywhere else, don't go looking for it or the NSA will hunt you down.

Distilled: 27/01/2005

Bottled: 22/08/2013

Cask No: 346

Bottle No: 14 of 615

Region: Speyside

Abv: 60.6%

Colour: Dried red roses... but, like.... evil ones.... that you're afraid of... that remind you of that person who broke your heart as a child.

Nose: Roses, strawberry, lemon pudding, red pixie stick, light caramel, tannins, pear, raspberry

You can tell this is truly evil based on the amount of red fruits mixed with floral and tannic notes. Not to mention the balance of oak lending itself to a nice pear note.

Definitely evil. You wouldn't enjoy this, run the other way.

Taste: Sprite, floral, raspberry, Monk's Blend tea, chocolate covered cranberry, pineapple

Really, if I wasn't as seasoned in reviewing as I was, this would blow my head clean off. Just because it's really interesting, and has some complexity doesn't mean you'll love it so much that you'll take extra time. I mean, that's a downside, right? I had to take an extra hour to enjoy this sample.

That's not good, you should avoid this, as it'll help your alignment stay on the good side.

Finish: Caramel, sea salt, lime, currant, nutmeg, dry/sandy, ginger candy, orange rind

Dry finishes are like the desert, and the added dessert notes with nice earth/sweet/acidic notes would just end up making you confused and then ordering the Sahara when you meant a Crepe and then boom, you're dying of thirst.

That's a bad thing.

Conclusion: Nothing to see here, move along....

Alright, sarcasm aside. I'll take a moment to say that I'm joking around to throw people off of this dram. It's complex, it's rich, and there's a lot of complexity to it. It's not quite hitting that "set of memories" point, but hell, is it close.

It's a strong, young, first fill whisky aged to be a fighter. If that doesn't sell you already, then just believe what I said and leave more of it for the rest of us.

85/100

Scotch review #231, Speyside review #71, Whisky Network review #341



Ooh Superman where are you now

When everything's gone wrong somehow

The men of steel, the men of power

Are losing control by the hour.



My Current Whisky Network Average = 79.24

Standard Deviation = 8.32

Skewness = -2.05341

Kurtosis = 6.80214



Don't blame you. I'm considering sending one to my parents to pick up for me.

Granted I had also said I'm not going to buy anymore bottles until after going to the UK, so it's going to be tough.