Island. Single malt. 46.3% ABV.

Score: 90/100

Another sample from UncleTobys. I really liked this, although I can't quite put my finger on why. It tastes really young - not in the sense that it's rough or immature, it's just really vibrant and alive. There's a strong sherry influence but it makes me think of fresh grapes more than aged wine. In any event it's fantastic and I'll be looking for it in the future. 



Me too. I just looked in the archive and the reviews for the 10 are mostly in the 80s. The 15 is great, but a bit pricey... maybe the 10 is a good alternative. I don't mind younger whiskies. 

It might even be next month's community review!



This is: the 15 year old offering from Tobermory, the only distillery on the Isle of Mull. This was one of the first single malts I ever tried that really blew me away. Back then I was not on scotchit so I wasn't taking notes. When the bartender told me ole Toby 15 was about to run out and they were not purchasing another bottle, I jumped on the opportunity to give it another go.
46% ABV, $150.  

Color: dark amber.... Big legs.  

Nose: oak, fruit, & spice... Woody notes of oak and pine, with plum, prunes, cinnamon, and ginger.  

Taste: rich & complex... Salt, malt, and lemon-candy -- almost lozenge-like with herbal notes I found tough to pin down. All with a savory hot-broth mouthfeel.  

Finish: sweet, salty, & oaky... Honey, caramel, and plenty of brine, with nice not-too-dry oak with a hint of old leather. Long!  

Conclusions: so damn good! Like a smokeless Lagavulin 16. 92/100  

Comparisons:
Tobermory 10 - 83/100
Ledaig 10 - 87/100



Would LOVE to try this. Tobermory was definitely the biggest shock for me after discovering peated/Islay whiskies. 

I ordered it at a pub in Edinburgh because it was one I hadn't tried, knew it was from Mull, and because Tobermory is a town back home that is close to me heart.

I couldn't believe how pale and gentle on the nose it was, especially after my first taste. Like hot, malty salt. Delicious stuff. Hopefully I get the chance to try the 15!



Met the guys from Tobermory at the Midlands whisky festival, discussed it while enjoying the Tobermory 42. They're going to get through the 2 years with various limited editions. They considered a NAS but decided that would hurt the brand and they'd rather just not release, which I have an awful lot of respect for.

https://imgur.com/a/m4QqI yum



Thanks to UncleTobys for the sample!

Tobermory 15. Island single malt from the Isle of Mull. Aged 15 years, finished in Oloroso sherry casks from the Gonz?lez Byass winery, and bottled at 46.3%. Local bottle price: $140 for 700mL.

Nose: Rich dessert vanilla flavours; ice cream and custard. Super sweet Oloroso casks imparting dates, sultanas, and dried apricots. Deep sniff reveals just a hint of oak.

Palate: That magic Burn Stewart proofage delivering a medium-full body. Chilli spice, vanilla bean and a subdued lime citrus note. More dessert wine sweetness gradually opening up, with more dried fruits and rich toffee.

Finish: Very clean and refreshing in profile, yet maintaining complexity, and holding length. Continuing spiciness and fresh fruits (particularly strawberry). Woody development over the finish. Some unfortunate sulfury metallic notes towards the end.

Good complexity, interesting development, and for the most part, quite tasty. Unfortunately the sulfurous notes in the finish kept this from hitting the 90s, but this is still a very respectable malt with a lot to offer.

89/100



I'm quite eager to try this dram which I got a sample of in a swap with /u/BirdTurgler. I don't usually mention ambiance, but I'll be sipping on this while watching The Untouchables for the first time. Hoping that both the movie and the scotch live up to the praise I've heard for each of them!

Tobermory 15

Strength: 46.3%

Color: Rich reddish brown. 

Nose: My immediate thought is that this reminds me of the GlenDronach 15 Revival nose. I think I'm actually going to have to go compare. 

Yeah, they seem pretty similar. This has some wonderful fruit and chocolate notes, smells decadent. Chocolate covered strawberries if I want to get specific. A nose like this sets my expectations high. 

Palate: Rich oaky sherry flavors, exactly what I was expecting. My kind of whisky. 

Finish: Dry and maybe a little bitter, and lingering but not hugely long. Almost has a tobacco like aftertaste, like a fine cigar. 

Summary: Good movie, great whisky. Damn it's tasty stuff! Right up my alley, fruity sherry and woody oak. It's something I'd consider getting a bottle of, but I hear it's considerably pricier than comparable whiskies. 

Score: 89/100 

Scotch Review #16

Whisky Review #20



My immediate thought is that this reminds me of the GlenDronach 15 Revival nose.

See, I didn't get the same strong rubber note in the Tobermory that's in the GlenDronach 15.



I'd pay $75 for the Tobermory, but I hear it goes for substantially more than that.

I got my first one for $110, the next three were more in the $130 neighborhood. 



I didn't get the same strong rubber note in the Tobermory that's in the GlenDronach 15.

I'd agree with that, though I'm more familiar with the dronach 18 than the 15. But I do like that rubber note.



Excellent review. Despite having gone through almost three bottles of it, I haven't done a proper review yet, but I obviously like it a bit. I just wish it wasn't so hard to get and expensive! 

To me, this is one of the more complex whiskies I've had. Repeated tastings yield new things every time. 



Tobermory 15, 46.3% ABV

Nose: Rich fruit cake with some brininess. Sour cherries and sweet sultanas. Honey roasted nuts. Leather, tobacco, faint sulphur and a little earthiness.

Taste: Warm, spicy and tart. Great mouthfeel. Salted toffee at the front, black pepper at the back. Candied orange peel, ginger and dark chocolate in between.

Finish: Fennel and honey. More pepper. A hint of earthy smokiness and some nicotine sting. Medium to long and satisfying. 

I really like this dram. Sweet, salty and spicy with some smokiness and acidity, it really hits the spot. This is my favourite whisky from the isle of Mull (note: this is the only whisky I've tried from the isle of Mull.)

91/100

Review #46, thanks for reading.



This cost $140 AUD, so yeah, a bit high. Great whisky though!

The only Springbank I've tried was at a pub, I think it was a CS. I liked it. I need to get a Springbank...



Have you had both?  Is it worth skipping the 10yo for this one?

And now that you mention it I think I'll pour myself a Springbank 15 :D



I'm actually tied between this and the Cragganmore Distillers Edition for the top of my list of favorite low-peat scotches.

Maybe to clear it up, I loved the Tobermory the best, but the availability and price is what brought them a bit closer.

I really enjoyed the toffee tastes in this one, it tasted just like Mom used to make, all the way down to the sea salt and the crackers...

Maybe that's what you ascribed to the pepper perhaps? That slightly dry-ish contrasting taste?



Good Day Scotchit, Texacer here with a quick review.  Tobermory 15 year 92.6 proof NCF with 1798 stamped on the side is of course a commemorative bottle to commemorate this day in history, the 15th anniversary of when  in Ohio, on August 20, 1783, Great Britain turned over all land that it had formerly claimed in modern-day Ohio, which ended the American Revolution*.  bet you didn't know that.

reminds me of Aberlour NCF 12. delicious stuff.  completely different than the regular standard Tobermory.  I like to drink this while eating a steak, smoking a cigar and thinking about my freedom. 

96/100

*not really true



Muriccahhhh

....glad you liked it (fuck yeah)



I like to drink this while eating a steak, smoking a cigar and thinking about my freedom. 

Don't you throw up when you smoke cigars and drink at the same time?



I totally meant to review this one as well! Easily my favorite Scotch (so far), and pairs so well with meats! 

Also, damnit, Texacer, now I need to get some Aberlour.



Liquorama has it, I ordered it, and I will drink it (and hopefully enjoy it).

Thanks for the suggestion, have an updram!



Hi Scotchit! You've reached the Corey hotline. $4.95 a minute. Here are some words that rhyme with Corey: gory, story, allegory, Montessori,

Tobermory 15

Islands, 46.3%

Finished one year in Oloroso Sherry casks, non chill-filtered.

color: golden bronze (natural color)

nose: strawberry marmelade, oak, prunes, candied oranges, hint of sulphur, raisins, cherries, sea salt, leather

taste: blood oranges, strawberry marmalade, milk chocolate, coffee, oak, toffee, licorice, wood spice

finish: white pepper, walnuts, drying, lingering

When I first opened the bottle the sulphur was quite strong. Luckily it faded away quickly, after a few days it was gone almost entirely. What's left is a rich, intense and complex malt. At the beginning sweet, in the development with a touch of sourness/acidity and spicy to the end. Oh and: the outlines of the Isle of Mull on the box look kinda Bart Simpson...

88/100



Tobermory distillery is an island distillery, the only one on the Isle of Mull, which is just to the north of Islay. Their peated whisky is sold under the Ledaig (pronounced Le-Chig, supposedly).

First up is the 15 year old version of Tobermory, bottled at 46.3% abv.

Nose - Smells like an Irish whiskey - bananas are what I get first and foremost. There?s also toffee, black pepper, vanilla, clove, something a bit plasticky, brine, and allspice. A bit aggressive, but interesting.

Palate - Salted toffee and vanilla right away, with the bananas, baking spice, black pepper, and the slight plastic note showing up as it develops. Nicely full flavored. Medium plus body, feels somewhat thick.

Finish - Clove, black pepper, allspice, salted toffee, vanilla, with a slightly burnt note making an appearance. Medium length.

This was a bit different, but not in a bad way - it combined some notes I typically associate with Irish whisky with some nice island/coastal characteristics. The downside was the slight plasticky note I found - overall this is solid, and kind of interesting, but not great. I?ll never buy this, though - wine-searcher?s average price for it is $143, which is obscenely expensive for what it is.

83/100

Ledaig 10

As for Tobermory?s peated version?.

Nose - Seems pretty nice at first, like it can go toe-to-toe with a good entry level Islay. BBQ pork, butterscotch, vanilla, oceany brine, black and white pepper, herring in white wine. Nice power and complexity.

Palate - Nicely sweet and smoky. Butterscotch, vanilla, oversmoked pork (it works here), with some lemon, black pepper, and oceany brine notes as it develops. Medium body, somewhat oily. Nicely balanced. Again, can go toe-to-toe with a good entry level Islay.

Finish - Heavy smoke, herring in white wine, lemon, black and white pepper, with some vanilla/butterscotch sweetness in the background.

This is a pleasant surprise - it checks all the boxes I would expect from Laphroaig 10, Ardbeg 10, Port Charlotte, etc. If the entry level version is this tasty, Ledaig is something I?ll be buying more of, even if, for some odd reason, it seems to run a bit more expensive than its neighbors to the south.

87/100



Yeah there's no way in hell I'm buying Tobermory given the pricing.

IB Ledaig is what I'll be keeping an eye out for.



I tried 2 samples of the Ledaig 10 the other day and it really surprised me. What a delicious peated islander. To put it into beautiful words, it's like drinking a campfire on a ocean cliff with the waves crashing below you and the sea spray wafting up and mingling with the smoke from the fire to deliver a poetic melody for your nose and taste buds. 

For me, this is better than talisker 10. 



I received this sample from /u/PACitizen, my Canuck compadre out West-ish, and realized since I have other swaps lined up, I'd better start reviewing a few more of these! I absolutely love a good Island malt and am excited to try this one from the Isle of Mull! I've considered buying some Ledaig, so this might inform that decision, given it's made at the same distillery.

Appearance: Appears to be coloured, as that deep orange-brown colour doesn't appear natural. It is very nice looking though, and the legs on this thing are phenomenal!

Nose: lots of sugar and sherry in this one. The oloroso sherry butt finish is really very present here. Cherry and dark fruit. Some berries. Little bit of nuts. 

Taste: this is beautiful. Some really earthy notes along with sweet berries and red fruit. Spicy/peppery. Nutty cocoa. Just a fantastic mix of sugar/spice/all-that?s-nice - and that's what Tobermory 15 is made of. Added a few drops of water since it's got a bit of heat to it, but it dulled it pretty badly. more tannic oak and the sweetness is muted. shouldn't have done that :(

Finish: finish is spicy and warm. Lots of tannins and oak linger. Less fruit now because of the water, why o why did I do that?!

Rating: 91/100

this was fantastic. I'm a big fan, and would be hard pressed not to buy this if I found it in Ontario. Of course, it'd likely be about $150 here so that might deter me. This solidifies my good impression of Island malts, though this is very differet than the others I've tasted. colour me impressed!

@Review_Bot scotch



/u/muaddib99's  reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Sounds like this is almost, but not quite, entirely unlike tea

Thanks for the prefect review!



I've never had a nice ledaig/tobermory. It's whisky so I'll still drink it, don't get me wrong.  It's just I've tried two single casks and the standard tobermorry single malt and it just hasn't appealed to me.

Maybe I've been unlucky



So... like I need more downvotes with the reviews I've been putting up on /r/Wine, however, I think I owe this distillery, and /u/reddbdb to keep reviewing them. Thanks to /u/PACitizen for the sample.

For those of you wondering, I'm not a fan of Tobermory 10. You can find each of the reviews of it I have done, and each one, though different, sucked for very different reasons. It drew some cheers and jeers. I did it again, because I'm a masochist... wait, no, I did it as a clean review.

Suffice to say, I've had enough Tobermory 10. So given the chance, I should have avoided Tobermory 15, right? Than I read that people who usually don't like 10 like the 15.

I still wasn't 100%. But that's when you should do something, because that's how we learn.

This one, versus the 10, is matured in Oloroso sherry casks. It's given 5 more years. My friend loves the 10, maybe I'll like this one?

Isle of Mull, I'll take your challenge.

Price: $170.00 (CAD) at the LCBO

Region: Island

Abv: 46.3%

Colour: Dull brass

Nose: Strawberries, lemon, light smoke, mushrooms, wet dog, sea salt, pineapple

Initially this smells nothing at all like Tobermory juice. Eventually, slowly, there's aspects (the sea salt). The bad funk from before has evolved into lemon and wet dog now, which is good. Not perfect, but better.

Taste: Strawberry, sea salt, pepper, mushroom, liquorice, cinnamon, pecan

Very sweet. The sherry aspect is pairing nicely with the earth flavours of Tobermory. There's even a nuttiness now. No more bad, is good now. Me happy.

Finish: Earth, umami, cherry, orange, lime zest, smoke

Gone is the funky metal, medicinal taste. Instead the bitter aspects are balanced by the sweetness.

This is how to make things better.

Conclusion: This tastes very similar to Aberlour 12 Sherry Cask. There are some aspects that help the sherry, like the additional earth, the sea salt, and some of the light wisps of smoke.

That all said... well, there's a turd in the punch bowl coming up. 

Look, this is a well done sherry cask Scotch. It has some complexity. But in all honesty, it's interchangeable with other, younger, lower Abv. sherried whiskies. Honestly, this was good, but not great. And for the price that it's charging, it's not great. I mean, throw me a bone here: Make it cask strength, or use first fill, or make it a sherry bomb. Don't charge more than A'bunadh or Macallan Cask Strength or Glenfarclas 17 and then give me something similar.

And that's why I am giving it a lower score. It's just okay, and it is overpriced.

80/100

Scotch review #177, Island #19

Other Tobermory distillery reviews

Tobermory 10

Tobermory 10 re-review



Thanks for trying.  Gold Star.

Glad Mull at least put a decent whisky on the table for you.  But, you are right,  like other whiskies it's interchangeable with other, younger, lower Abv, readily available, etc



I am so glad someone else had a similar experience with this one (especially from a different bottle).  Another thoughtful review.  Cheers

Also if anyone in the USA wants samples of this action I am sharing.