Reviews #15, 16, & 17

Hello scotchit! It's been many months since my last review. So as punishment for not contributing, here's a vertical from a fairly quiet distillery. Let's see how the Tomatin malts do.

?????????????????????????????????????????????

Tomatin 12 Year Old. Highlands, Sherry Finished, 43% ABV, 50ml Mini.

Nose: Nutmeg, spice bread, dried fruits, caramel toffee, vanilla, salty tang.

Taste: Citrus (Oranges), spice bread, vanilla, toasted oak, dark cocoa, slight nutty-ness, malt.

Finish: Sweet. Caramel toffee, oak, salt.

88/100

?????????????????????????????????????????????

Tomatin 15 Year Old. Highlands, Ex-Bourbon Barrel, 43% ABV, 50ml Mini.

Nose: Malt, vanilla, apples, marshmallows, jolly ranchers, floral. In other words, a big dollop of spring time. Very fresh.

Taste: Pepper, vanilla creme, apple, confectioners sugar, sponge cake, more jolly ranchers.

Finish: Dry, salty, a bit bitter.

82/100

?????????????????????????????????????????????

Tomatin 18 Year Old. Highlands, Oloroso Cask Finished, Non-Chill Filtered, 46% ABV, 50ml Mini. 

Nose: Oloroso up front. Overripe dark fruits, spice bread, dark cacao, hazelnuts, vanilla pudding, caramel toffee. I could nose this for hours.

Taste: Oily mouth-feel. Cinnamon, dried fruits, chocolate pudding, toasted oak, nutty. A creamy-ness that lasts all the way until the finish.

Finish: Creamy and lingering. Slightly dry, slightly wine-y. Spice bread, vanilla, caramel, and oak.

92/100

?????????????????????????????????????????????

That's the end Scotchit. I bought this sampler out of pure curiosity and I've been greatly rewarded. The 12 will be replacing my Glenlivet as my go-to daily. At $27 its a real value find. Its more complex than the two "Glens" and doesn't taste like over used barrels. The 18 blew me away. Nose, taste, and finish are all top notch. I think I'll buy them all before people realize how good it is and the price goes up! My only complaint would be the 15. It's well made, but bland. I also suspect over used barrels. It just didn't do it for me. Other than that, I'm happy to say that Tomatin knows what they are doing. Thank you for reading through my ramblings! It's good to be back!



I've got this sampler as well and am looking forward to working through it. 

Also debating if I should open my Decades bottle too :-)



That's different, I guess. 

I've only had the standard Cu Bocan (it's shitty, avoid). 



Oddly enough, I liked the 15. I think the 18 was only slightly better.

If you ever get the chance, try the 21 year. It is very, very tasty. Or Decades. Also really good.



The 15 wasn't bad. I simply didn't enjoy the finish is all.

Decades sounds like an incredibly interesting whisky! I have to check and see if any of my local stores have any. (:



I like to get the 50ml sample bottles of Scotch for reviews. They're a
great inexpensive way of trying a new dram without paying bar prices
or getting stuck with a bottle you don't like.  I have a shelf with 6
or 7 of them needing tastings and reviews, but I keep adding to the
collection faster than I'm drinking them. Today, browsing a liquor
store's racks, I found bottles of a couple of blends I haven't heard
of before (And don't have any reviews in the database. I like new
stuff instead of the same old standards that already has 100 reviews
on file), and these 3 packs of Tomatin. The blends went in the pending
collection ,but I decided the single malts shouldn't wait.

Tomatin 12.  "Finished in Spanish Sherry Casks", 43% ABV.

Color: Pale coppery gold. Looks like apple juice.

Nose: Green apples. Hints of vanilla and nutmeg. Smells like apple
juice too. A few drops of water brings out the vanilla a lot more.

Palate: Cloves and other spice, oak, malty sweetness, apple. Water
adds a bit of brine. Letting it sit out and get some air brings out
the sherry.

Finish: Very creamy. Lingering alcohol burn with a bit of bitterness
and sherry notes.

This is a Scotch to give to somebody who loves cider.  It's a good
fall or winter dram, sipping on while sitting around a fire. I like
it.  A full bottle is only $23 at my usual online source, which
surprises me. I'd have figured it would be more; it doesn't taste like
a cheap whisky (And that's a bit less than I paid for this sampler set
locally!).  At that price, I can see it becoming a staple on my
shelf. 86/100.

Tomatin 15.  "Matured in Traditional Scotch Whisky Oak Casks", 43% ABV.

Color: Very pale yellow. Reminds me of white wines.

Nose: Strong vanilla, apple, pear. Reminds me of bourbon. Water brings
out some grassy notes.

Palate: Oak, honey,  pepper. Salty brine with water.

Finish: Thick and chewy, lingering burn.

Much heavier compared to the 12 year, and not as fruity, but still
with sweet notes.  Not as impressed by the 15 as I was the 12.

75/100.

Tomatin 18. NCF, "Finished in Oloroso Sherry Casks", 46% ABV. The
oldest whisky I've tried so far.

Color: Pale amber-gold.

Nose: Lots of sherry, vanilla, foundation of apples. Maple syrup shows
up after it's gotten some air.

Palate: Sweetness, dried apples. Water gets figs, a tart
orangish/grapefruit flavor, and some sulpher. I've recently heard
several times here that sherry casks get a sulpher candle burnt in
them before being used to hold whisky, and this is the first time I've
noticed the taste. Luckily, it's very minor.

Finish: Long and oaky, with just a hint of smoke.

Compared to the lively, and above all appley 12, and the rather
disappointing 15, the 18 year is much more mature, with a better
aroma, and the sherry is much more obvious than in the 12.  Good thing
I like sherry. 

85/100.



You know, I just bought a similar triple pack a few months ago, save it has the legacy instead of the 15. I'll be doing a mega review of them, so we'll see if I turned out more lucky than you on the pack selection.

Nice reviews!



Love me some verticals!

Only had the 12 as a mystery dram and I totally agree with you. 



I did a little whisk(e)y shopping the other day and among the bottles that found their way home with me, was a 3 pack of Tomatin. I've never had Tomatin and know nothing about their profile, but it was a good price and I'm a sucker for something new. 

Tomatin 12 Year: Finished in Spanish Sherry Casks and bottled at 43%.

Color: Light gold.

Nose: Very light. It's fruity with sherried oak and white wine.

Taste: Thin, malty mouthfeel. Somewhat sweet, but there's a cinnamon spice too that borders on hot. Oak is present as well.

Finish: Short. The pepper and oak present turn the finish hot.

A bit of a one trick pony here. The 12yr old just really isn't all that flavorful and the heat puts me off this. It is a great value buy though, coming in at just $30, while Glenlivet and Glenfiddich's 12yr offrings are slightly over $40. That being said, if I want something fruity and simple, I'll put up the extra cash for Glenlivet or Glenfiddich.

67/100

Tomatin 15 Year: Aged in "Traditional Scotch Whisky Oak Casks" and, like the 12yr, bottled at 43%.

Color: Straw

Nose: Light and sweet. Fruity, think apples and pears. Crisp, white wine and vanilla notes.

Taste: Thin, almost watery mouthfeel, very similar to the 12yr in this regard. Sweet, with citrus, floral, and oak notes.

Finish: Short and light like the 12yr, but not hot. Instead the finish is slightly sweet with a winey taste. There's also a woody undertone in the finish.

The 15yr had promise, but the thin mouthfeel ends up leaving it just slightly better than the 12yr; mostly because it loses the heat the 12yr exhibited in the finish. There's also a little more going on flavor wise here. Nevertheless, still unimpressive. As an aside, there appears to be a 15yr bottled at 52% that may be better, but based on this, I'm not going to be paying the $70 asking price.

72/100

Tomatin 18 Year: Finished in Oloroso Sherry Casks, non-chill filtered, and bottled at 46%. Well alright, the NCF and higher proof have me interested, hopefully the 3rd time is the charm for Tomatin and not its 3rd strike.

Color: Light amber, the darkest of the three.

Nose: The sherry finish is immediately apparent in the nose, as you're hit with a pleasant, slightly spicy sherried oak. There are notes of honey, vanilla, and apple.

Taste: Thicker mouthfeel than the 12 or 15 (which I'm attributing in part to the higher proof, but also to being NCF). I found a spicy oak, pepper, and caramel. Mostly oak here, the alcohol poked through once or twice as well.

Finish: Moderately long, dry finish. Picked up a hint of brine initially. Mostly oak here, with some smoke and honey.

The 18yr is far better than the 12yr and moderately better than the 15yr. Still not fantastic though. The palate and finish have a little too much barrel influence for my tastes. Not in an over-oaked "licking the barrel" sort of way, but any other flavors present are overshadowed by the oak. 

Again, more on the value side here, coming in around $25 cheaper than either Glenlivet or Glenfiddich's 18yr. Not sure I could justify the extra on either of those, but at the same time, I couldn't spend $70 on the Tomatin 18yr either. 

76/100

Final Thoughts: Overall, I was disappointed by Tomatin. The 12 was a complete waste of time: hot and lacking in flavor. The 15 showed promise, but ultimately is hindered by its subtlety (the 52% bottling may not have this issue). The 18 had a promising nose, but the barrel influenced the rest of the dram a little too much for my tastes. 



That's too bad, I love Tomatin. Oddly enough, we differed on the 12 and 15. I found the 15 to be skippable and the 12 to have more promise.

I had the 21, and it's at a much higher Abv, and it tastes a lot better than the others. Also, if you ever try the 30, aim for the 49%. The lower Abv one is a massive disappointment.



Tomatin 12, 43% ABV

Tomatin is a single-malt I had tried several years ago when I first began drinking scotch and came away perfectly neutral towards?it seemed okay, but nothing special.  As it turns out, apparently roughly 80% of its product goes straight into blends, and I find that other single-malts made primarily to be used in blends (such as the Aberfeldy 12) are made primarily to be an inoffensive tabula rasa.  The Tomatin 12 fits into that mold perfectly, so my initial impressions seemed to be spot on, even though I wasn?t really making any detailed tasting notes of any sort back then.  But Tomatin has come out with a USD $30 3-pack of minis of their 12, 15, and 18 single malts, which I felt might be worth a go mostly to try their 18, which is non-chill filtered and aged in Oloroso sherry casks.  But I?ll build up to that one and start here with the 12, which goes for about USD $40/bottle:

Nose: Bananas, honey, straw.  The latter two I find to be fairly common on the nose of many entry-level Highlands products, but the bananas do provide a unique twist, it?s like smelling banana bread.

Body: Really very light, not at all substantial despite the slightly higher 43% ABV compared to 40% for a lot of entry-level single malts.  A disappointment.

Palate: Fruit salad, salted caramel, malted grain or cereal, and just a bit of nuttiness, closest I think to toasted almonds, which would go well with the banana bread notes on the nose if it weren?t so weak.

Finish: Really rather flimsy, minimal burn but it is also very nondescript with the exception of a short burst of floral sweetness.  That?s about it, really.

Overall: It?s easy to see why so much of Tomatin finds its way into blends, because it isn?t bad per se, but boring and flat.  Even one-trick ponies presumably do their trick well, but Tomatin prefers to sleep rather than get up and go.  It?s an excellent filler scotch, which isn?t a compliment.  75/100

Tomatin 15, 43% ABV

One benefit to seeing all three bottled side-by-side is that you can see any color differences in them, and the 15 was much, much paler in color than either the 12 or the 18, which leads me to believe that Tomatin did not use any e150a in it, for which I applaud them?even if, as it turns out, the 15 turned out to be overall subpar as well.  Unlike the 12, which was matured in sherry casks, the 15 was matured in bourbon oak casks, the character of which I think was noticeable in the shift in tones from fruit and honey to buttered toast and pastry crust.

Nose: Buttered toast, vanilla extract, and fruit tart.  The first two are unsurprising considering the aging in bourbon oak casks, but the fruitiness is an additional, if relegated, dimension.

Body: Similarly (and disappointingly) light and unsubstantial, again, despite the 43% ABV.  Thoroughly unimpressive.

Palate: Toasted marshmallows, pastry or pie crust, but also a bit of citrusy salt-and-sour notes, like clementines or even blood oranges.  Not a whole lot more happening than that, though.

Finish: Like the 12, quite nondescript.  Drops off quickly leaving little impression, and does not linger long enough to provide much memorability.  Which is just as well, really, as it falls short too.

Overall: This actually may have been worse than the 12 overall, because at least the 12 had an interesting nose to it.  The 15 is boring to its very core, and appears to have picked up very little in the extra three years it spent in its casks.  I lied every time I said that the aforementioned Aberfeldy 12 was the most boring single malt I?ve ever tried, it?s this.  Yawn.  73/100

Tomatin 18, non-chill filtered, 46% ABV

Like the 12 and unlike the 15, the 18 was matured in sherry casks?in this case, Oloroso sherry, and the difference is immediately noticeable and favorable after trying two really unimpressive drams.  The 18 is also the only one that explicitly says that it was non-chill filtered, so I am assuming the other two were chill-filtered, which may explain at least a little of their own mediocrity.

Nose: Some similar notes to the 12 with bananas, honey, and straw all detectable, but alongside some maple, berries, and a much stronger raisin scent, even though both were aged in sherry casks.  The raisins and figs in this, though, make the 18?s nose much better and multi-dimensional one.

Body: Syrupy and thick, much different than the etherealness of either the 12 or the 15.  I can?t tell if it feels a bit cloying just because I?m tasting it relative to those two or if it really is a tad cloying.  Still, there?s much more going on here, and I?m enjoying it.

Palate: The strong raisin presence from the nose continues here, plus still more bananas, molasses, brown sugar, and malt.  It?s like if I had a dessert of bananas foster topped with a few raisins.

Finish: Long and unexpectedly peppery, this one lingers with a decent burn, although some acid reflux I was experiencing that day may have exacerbated that sensation for me.  As it dissipates, though, the pepper sticks around alongside the sherry quite pleasantly.

Overall:  The 18 is a somewhat different animal compared to its two younger siblings, and the one out of the three that I feel I can really recommend on spec, although its price point really works against it.  My nearest Total Wine has it for USD $95, which is lower than many other 18-year-old single malts, but that?s still way too many clams for what you get, and when I can buy, say, the Aberlour 18, for ten bucks less than that, I can?t say it?s worth it.  80/100

Price: So, as for the sampler 3-pack itself, at $30, it is just not worth it either, as you can get a bottle of a decent blended scotch like Monkey Shoulder or Cutty Sark Prohibition for that price, and the bottle represents a 5x increase in quantity over the 3 minis.  I?m glad that I did get to try the 18, but am otherwise basically writing the thirty bucks off as a loss in my whisky-tasting adventures.

Tomatin Legacy, NAS, 43% ABV

Finally, the Legacy?Tomatin?s entry-level NAS product?wasn?t a part of the three-pack of minis, but I decided to try it to give as complete a review of Tomatin?s range as possible.  So, for the sake of completeness, I am glad I tried it, but I fear you will find this final installment of my quartet of reviews as far too repetitious because, well, the Legacy is repetitious of the 12 especially.  Oh well.

Nose: Salt and straw.  That?s about it, really.  I think I?ve got a better nose than I do palate, so when I just can?t detect anything even remotely complex about a whisky, it?s seldom a good sign to me.

Body: On the lighter side, it coats the mouth just fine but without any of the sort of roundedness I appreciate and look for from more complex scotches.

Palate: Malt and grain, with some birthday cake, vanilla, and a little bit of nuttiness mixed in.  Altogether bland and unremarkable, not a single stand-out quality or flavor.

Finish: Dry and weak.  The flavors dissipate quickly, but the dryness tends to linger which creates for a less pleasant sensation than the original coating from the scotch?s mouthfeel.

Price: USD $35 in my town.  A meh price for a meh scotch.  Still not worth the money, though.

Overall: This scotch is indeed very aptly named, for I feel Tomatin?s legacy, such as it is, is to remain an ultimately inoffensive product destined primarily for various blends.  It really is a shame that this product is so redundant compared to the rest of Tomatin?s range, because its NAS status should (in theory) enable the distillery to buck its usual flavors by using any of their scotches available to them.  Instead, this seems like par for the course from them, and it gets scored accordingly.  70/100

All in all, Tomatin's place as the guardian of the gates of scotch hell as a yappy Pomeranian seems firmly in place.  If you made it this far, my congratulations.



I drank about half a bottle of the 12 last night. Bought this at a whim as I was drunk and the name is very close to my friends Instagram account. They didnt find that fact as amusing as I did. 

I agree with your notes it is very nutty and light. The hangover today isnt too gnarly either, all considered. 

I definitely prefer Glenmorangie in the ~$40-50 range, though.



These were all reviewed semi-blind and side by side.

?

Tomatin 12, 43%

Nose:
Deep, dark, red fruits. Baking spices like cinnamon and nutmeg. French toast crunch all the way.

Palate:
Oily mouth feel with a watered-down bourbon cask taste. Oak, syrup strawberries, cinnamon, and walnuts. No layers, but the flavor is present through to the end of the palate.

Finish:
Medium finish with notes of smoke, berries, and oak char.

Conclusion:
Enjoyable. No flaws, but there is a lack of depth on the flavor. Inoffensive, and has pleasant, nutty notes on the palate. The nose smells exactly like french toast crunch, easily the best part of the dram. If my ratings included value, this might score a little higher.

In three words: Cinnamon, walnut, oak

Score:   81/100

?

Tomatin 15, 43%

Nose:
Very fresh and lively nose. Notes of peaches, apples, pepper, grape juice, and oak.

Palate:
Medium mouth feel. Fresh and lively, with some pepper, citrus, dry oak, star anise, pineapple, ginger, blackberries, and cream.

Finish:
Short finish with lemon zest, smoke, cinnamon, pepper, and oak.

Conclusion:
Nice balance, peppery and lots of citrus. A decent, refreshing malt from Tomatin. Good, but not crazy good.

In three words: Citrus, oak, cream

Score:   84/100

?

Tomatin 18, 46%

Nose:
Vanilla, but the rest is all acetone. Hard to nose past the acetone, but there is a passion fruit note buried there.

Palate:
Creamy, light, and a somewhat funky tea note that reminds me a little of Bunnahabhain. A very harsh, young, spicy note shows up at the end of the palate that ruins the dram.

Finish:
Something is wrong here, The young, spicy, alcohol note morphs into an terrible, hot, bitter feeling on the back of the throat. 

Conclusion:
Far too much hot alcohol, the astringent kind. It's an awful mess. Too bad, it started out nice and I liked the tea note.
Tomatin 18! I honestly expected much better from their 18 year expression. The 12 is much better. Disappointing.

In three words: Bitter tea spice.

Score:   61/100

?

Tomatin 30, 46%

Nose:
Woody, slightly metallic, and some cardboard. Very elusive and muted nose.

Palate:
Heavy bodied mouth feel. Floral and funky up front with notes of  cream, cinnamon, pepper, cloves, caramel, oak, rose petals, and plums. Floral notes develop into soapiness during the end palate.

Finish:
Medium length finish with barbecue wood chips, apple, plums, maraschino cherries, and cream

Conclusion:
Excellent mouth feel. Very different from other Tomatins I've tried. I feel the flavors are less bold than other offerings and the undertone of soap at the end just kills the flavor. Not a good nose though, too hard to get much out of.

This is a sample that I saved back from a gift bottle several years ago. Time has not been kind to this sample and the bottle it was stored in was just not up to par. I remember it being much better before and soapiness was not present. It would be unfair to give a rating based on this sample, but if I had to: 79/100.

In three words: Floral caramel cream.

Score:   NA/100

?

Tomatin Decades, 46%

Nose:
Apples, cinnamon, ripe plums, peach, raisins, and sugar syrup.

Palate:
Medium mouth feel with big notes of pepper, dry oak, peach, plum, mint, white grape juice, light cinnamon, beeswax, dill, and cloves

Finish:
Medium length, refreshing finish. Spicy notes of pepper and cloves, white grapes, and and plums.

Conclusion:
Nice, inoffensive, and a refreshing on the finish. Very fruity overall with lots of pepper on the palate. Herbal and minty on the finish that reminds me of a Springbank. Drinks higher than it's proof (in a good way).

In three words: Peach, grapes, wax

Score:   87/100

?

All in all, these were OK. Interesting enough to look at some of their indie bottlings, but not enough for me to carve more space out in my too-full cabinet for the OBs.



I just can't get past the "sweaty locker room" smell of the tomatin. 

However, you gotta try their Nas legacy. Very good dram, probably better than the 12



Sample Backlog! Thank you u/tvraisedme (a gentleman of the highest caliber) for the samples.

anCnoc 12

43%abv, $36

This is the first time that I?ve really sat down with this malt and picked its brain.  It is summer time after all, and I?m a sucker for the classic un-peated bourbon matured ?lighter fare.?  Let?s have at it! 

Nose: Honey, Stewed pineapple, banana laffy taffy, there is also an earthy component that keeps it balanced.  Fruity but of great character. 

Palate: lemon candy, nectarines, honey and malty but not ?cereal?, pure silk.  Yummy.  No strange wood notes and I?m surprised at how quickly 2oz disappeared. 

Finish: peppery tang, green apples, pleasant linger and tingle, refreshing and not too dry

85/100 At this price you really can?t beat it.  It?s delicious and if you slow down there is a dash of mystery to explore.  The mouthfeel and nose really step it up above the likes of Glenmorangie/Glenfiddich.  However my Islay Barley and it?s little bit of ginger takes this summer dram title.

Tomatin 15 Limited Edition NCF

52%abv, You can?t find it 

First one to review this expression here; the pressure!  It?s matured in a combination of 2nd fill Bourbon barrels and Tempranillo wine casks.  Tempranillo is a Spanish grape used to make big, full bodied wines.  Oh baby 

Nose: Sweet blackberry yogurt, cr?me brulee, funky musty grapes, plumb tobacco.  Interesting and satisfying as the sun goes down and the grill heats up.

Palate: Tasty if not a little hot.  Pomegranate juice, tropical fruit cough drops.  Nutty popcorn without the caramel.  Rummy banana daiquiri.  Water brings out more of the bourbon maturation spicy notes; cinnamon, ginger, pepper.  It?s evolving yet still maintains that Tomatin essence I enjoy. 

Finish: It has some grip and tannins especially after adding water.  More custard initially but still lingering, I preferred this without water.

87/100 Ah the tricky balance of wine maturation.  Damn fine job! 

Tomatin 12

Tomatin Decades



Hiya, folks. Back again tonight, this time with some scotch. Tonight I?ll be looking at Tomatin, their 15 year expression which is a mixture of bourbon and Spanish tempranillo casks. I?m especially excited because I?ve recently come to enjoy Spanish reds. Where is Tomatin? It?s in the highlands, just a bit southeast of Inverness. I really like that their website doesn?t require me to enter an age and just has a ?Are you an adult??-type button. They?ve mostly been a producer for blends, with (according to Wikipedia) ~80% going to blenders. This 15 year is an attempt to either cash in on the single malt craze or produce a quality spirit. They are owned (and have been for quite a while) by a Japanese company who specializes in sake and an assortment of other products. It?s a wonder why they bought it in the first place. I?m too lazy to google any more information.

There?s a half marathon near me at the end of November. I may run it.

There seems to be another 15 floating around out there that is plain ol? bourbon cask and bottled at 43%. Looks like it has a black label and can sometimes be found in an OB sample pack. Please note, this is not that bottle.

Tomatin, 52%, $65  

NOSE: Sweet raisins, vanilla creams, sweet citrus With Waterorange zest, fruit stripe gum
PALATE: candied fruits, sweet figs, raisins, dark chocolate, sea salt With Water a creamy sweetness followed by an earthy spice I just can?t place
FINISH: Long and peppery,  sea breeze With Water very peppery and dry
FINAL THOUGHTS:    The tempranillo is very reminiscent of sherry, but in a different way. It?s not overpowering, though I?d love to try this fully matured in that tempranillo cask ? though I don?t wonder if the vatting of the bourbon is saving this whisky; that the tempranillo may be a one trick pony. If this isn?t a cash grab, then kudos to tomatin. Damn fine work.
SCORE: 88/100



A: "How many kids with ADD does it take to screw in a light bulb?"

B: "Umm, I don't know. How?"

A: "Let's go ride bikes!"



I won a dram of this stuff in a bar ring toss.

Found it delightful.



Review #53

Tomatin 15 (86 proof)

Nose: juice soaked cardboard, dragon fruit and kiwi, bit of earthy peat funk and musty cologne

Taste: faint fresh fig and passion fruit followed by pencil shavings and eraser; punchy 

Finish: short; with nothing to show for it but some faint malt

Overall: Very light. Faint tropical fruits and Tomatin character. Reminds me more of new make. Tomatin, you done fucked up. If I bought a full bottle of this, I would have been mad. Shame on you.

Rating: Fine (71/100)



I really hope the 30 I bought isn't disappointing.

Damn man, I just spoke my mind. Ralfy said it was good, you're going to love it!



/u/zillah1985's Tomatin reviews in /r/scotch:

Info | Please address any remarks to /u/FlockOnFire



Tomatin, you done fucked up. If I bought a full bottle of this, I would have been mad. Shame on you.

Rating: Fine (71/100)

If a 71 is "you done fucked up" then why even have a 100 point scale?



Hi Scotchit! I've tried a couple of Tomatins recently and I want to share my reviews with you. So if you haven't already, pour yourself a glass of a nice whisky, make yourself comfortable in your favorite easy chair and enjoy, weekend is over faster than you think!

Tomatin 12

Speyside, 40%

color: amber

nose: walnuts, red wine, After Eight (TM), cookies, herbs, wood

taste: sweet, dried apricots, toffee, wood, marzipan, malt

finish: forest berries, middle long, dry

Solid, good malt. Actually nothing to criticize, except it's probably colored, chill filtered and only 40%. The barrel is already clearly noticeable after 12 years.

83/100

Tomatin 15

Speyside, 43%

color: white wine

nose: floral, oak, sweet fennel, lemon, sour apple rings, tomato plant, caramel, linen, vanilla

taste: oak, rapeseed, tangerine, freshly squeezed lemon juice, coconut, touch of sage, unripe apricots, pineapple

finish: lingers

The oak is already quite noticeable. Nevertheless it is pretty fresh for a 15 yo. Well balanced, fruity and a nice long finish: would recommend.

87/100

Tomatin 18

Speyside, 46%

(90th Scotch review)

color: brass

nose: baked apple, vanilla, oak, honey, dark fruits, cinnamon, concrete

taste: oak, hint of smoke, tobacco leaves, honey, citrus, ginger, blackcurrants, chocolate

finish: warming and lingering

Typical Speysider. Not so complex. Pleasant nose with some mineral notes. A sweet arrival and a spicy development leading in a long finish. More sherry than the younger ones.

85/100

That's it! Tomatin makes some good stuff. If you want some change from your peat blasts or sherry bombs and are looking for a nice Speysider, try this. Thanks for reading!



Hmmm...I've heard such conflicting reviews for Tomatin recently, its hard to know, it seems, if you're gong to like it or not coming into it.  Thanks for the reviews!  

Also, you may have typo in the 15 taste notes, or at least I hope there isn't something call "rapeseed".



Part 1

No preamble about my life, no rambling about genitalia or frustrations, nothing as this one is going to be a barn burner; The often mentioned (by me) Tomatin Unde-Review that I've been saving up to do for way, way too long.

Tomatin is a Highland distillery located in, surprisingly, the village of Tomatin. They've been distilling since the 16th century, however they became an official distillery only near the end of the 19th, and since then have been mothballed, sold off, built up to handle massive amounts of booze, and then taken apart. Now 80% of their malts are in blends, and they are owned by a Japanese company. Mad world we live in.

If this distillery were a human, they'd be your tough grandparents. They've seen some shit, and still smile and act nicely and give you candy. Yet at the drop of a hat, they could gut your friends and leave them to dry before you could blink. Also they were the first to be owned by the Japanese, but we don't like to talk about that.

I'm also going to note that there's sometimes a week or more difference between each tasting/review here, so keep that in mind while reading each. It may seem a little manic otherwise.

Tomatin 12

Bought as part of a three part set

Price: $56.70 (CAD)

Abv: 43%

Colour: Straw

Nose: Honey, cranberry, wheat, lemon tart, butter, lime

There's a tart flavour to this one. Like my wife! Ha, I kid... seriously though, she's lovely and patient with me.

Anyway, it's an odd mixture of the tart sherry from the finish, the wheat from the spirit, and the butter/honey from the oak. Takes some time to get into.

Taste: Peanut, cinnamon, cherry, lime rind, nutmeg, ginger beer

There's some spicy red nuts throughout this.... Like my wife! Ha, I kid, seriously though, she's amazing and we have great relations, I'm just not a BJ kinda guy, so she doesn't.

Moving on...

The peanut flavour is very present. Also as it opens up, it's exactly like a proper, strong ginger beer, which is very odd. I don't know how much I liked it, but it was unique and had some nice flavours.

Finish: Lemon loaf, yeast, wheat, grains, ginger, bread, almond

The end of this one is too grainy and yeasty.

If you think I'm continuing on the joke above, you must think my chesterfield is really comfortable.

Seriously though, the end of this has some of that spice from the Spanish Sherry, but just... doesn't have enough? It's really nutty and yeasty, not really my thing.

Conclusion: It smells like a short sherry finished whisky, it has a nice taste, and the finish is like a spiced beer. A little too much yeast/grain in the finish, however it's a nice dram otherwise.

75/100

Tomatin 15

Aged in American oak

Bourbon influenced

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 43%

Colour: Dirty Blonde

Nose: Light red licorice, sour fake cherry, ancho, casia buds, plums

Sweet delicate taste

Some spice, some heat, mostly

Candy flavours here

Taste: Cherry, almond, currant, nutmeg, bubblegum, salt, caramel, pepper

Amaretto light

Not tart, just sweet, good mouth feel

Turns to sweet, salty

Finish: Nutmeg, strawberry, cloves, ham, ginger, heather honey

Less fruit at the end

Hints of Easter dinner throughout

Medium aftertaste

Conclusion: Okay, enough horsing around with Haikus. This is like a small step up from a Lowland malt, and it's really sweet. Some people may be turned off by that, however I enjoyed this quite a bit. It tastes like a single lotus leaf in a bowl, floating far.... wait, what the fuck does that even mean? It's delicate, it's sweet, I could see myself enjoying it any time, and the Finish was my favourite part.

82/100

Tomatin 18

Bought as part of a three part set. Finished in Oloroso Sherry casks.

Cue crying about sulfur.... now!

Price: $128.95 (CAD)

Abv: 46%

Colour: Roasted garlic

Nose: Strawberry, anise, basil, currant, nutmeg, lemon, candied orange, cake frosting

Very sweet nose, with just a hint of acid, spice, and vegetal notes. You can tell that the sherry is very prominent in this one.

Maybe it's the extra 46%? Maybe it's born with it...

Taste: Anise, lemon, pepper, nutmeg, raspberry juice, mint, ginger

That's a spicy meeta-ball! Seriously, lots of spice hitting you, and just a hint of acidic red fruits.

Finish: Buttered mushrooms, red licorice, strawberry jam, heat, allspice, raisin, caramel

Look to your dram, now back at my dram, the spice is paired with earth mixed with more red fruits and a deep sherry influence on the dram. Very short finish, unfortunately.

Conclusion: I feel like I've fallen and can't get up. This isn't a dram you'll be wondering where the beef is... it's a tasty dram. Slightly better than the 15, the price difference hurts it, yet this has a lot of interesting spice to it that makes it a dram to look out for.

84/100

Tomatin 18 year old 1994 Authentic Collection (WM Cadenhead) was reviewed directly (after cleaning my mouth of any residual flavour) after the above Tomatin 18. This one is independently bottled by the arcane masters of malt at Cadenheads, at cask strength, and probably with some eye of newt and toil and trouble thrown in.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Distilled: 1994

Bottled: February 2013

Cask Type: Bourbon Hogshead

No. of Bottles: 214

Abv: 54.1%

Colour: White wine

Nose: Pine, nutmeg, anise, plum, mango, vanilla, smoke

At first this is exactly like a Canuck, yet it start transmogrifying as time goes on, conjuring forth fruit, spice, and even a little smoke and vanilla. Unfortunately it has a reduced, light, hard to smell nose on it. 

10 points from Gryffindor!

Taste: Earth, anise, toffee, orange, nutmeg, cocoa, cinnamon, red grapes

Abjured from the sherry cask finish, this has more of a heavy spiced cocoa flavour. Like spiced hot chocolate, with a little Brave orange peel to bear me through it.

Finish: Sour lemon, turnip, butter, potato, mint, smoke, caramel, thyme

Earthy, but not in a bad way. Like stoneskin, this wears of after multiple hits of the dram. Last forever. Or at least that's what the gremlins want you to think.

Conclusion: Like eating an entire pack of Bertie Bott's every flavour beans, this has a huge amount of complexity and range. Long finish, great taste, and... well, the nose let's you down, and thus, I have to take points away for it. It's too bad, as it's really a better dram than the original otherwise. 

85/100

Tomatin 20 year old 1993 Old Particular (Douglas Laing) is up next. I bought this dram from Masters of Malt. I can't say for certain, as finding any information on this bottle has been a pain in my ass, but I would hazard to say it was aged in Bourbon Hogsheads. There is no colouring and, like all of the Old Particular line, they are non chill filtered. Since this is older than 19 years, it ends up at the higher Abv content.

The below format is stolen from /u/LetThereBeR0ck, who said it was okay for me to steal it.

And it's all from the same cask.

Price: Not available in Ontario.

Cask # 9984

Distilled: January 1993

Bottled: August 2013

Abv: 51.5%

Colour: Clear with a yellow tint

Nose: Tart, some meaty-ness, salty, some spice as time goes on

Taste: Smoked fruit, Mexican influences

Finish: Like a BBQ Bakery

Conclusion: Complex, spicy dram, with tons of citrus elements, and well worth buying

86/100

Tomatin 21 Year Old is a limited edition OB made up of whiskies that are between 21 and 24 years old, use both North American and Euopean oak casks, of which 6 are ex-bourbon and 1 is a refill sherry butt.

Hehehehe... I said Butt.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Distilled: Various ages, the youngest of which was 21. Thus they had to calm it down, stop it from partying, and let it meet up with some other 20 somethings to help blend it into a good person.

Bottled: December 1, 2009

Abv: 52%

Colour: Browny-yellow

Nose: Grapefruit, red grapes, currant, sea air, tobacco, light smoke, violets, clover honey

If I didn't know any better (and I don't), I'd say this was a sherried Islay. The fruit subsides after a bit, leaving a lot of tobacco smell to it, like kissing my wife after she's had a cigar.

Taste: Tobacco, smoke, dark cherry, mushrooms in butter, pastrami, pepper, paprika

Again, a ton of tobacco. Like, most of Montreal is in each drink, that's how much Tobacco.

(EDITOR'S NOTE): Montrealer's smoke like it's the cure for cancer.

Finish: Cuban Cigar, mint, hairspray, sour candies, faint dark fruits

Finishes in an earthy, Cuban Cigar (Suck it Americans, I live in Canada, I can buy Cubans!) taste that is very present.. You know, like being present when you fart in an elevator, that kinda present.

Conclusion: Confession time, I... don't like Cigars. Just not my thing. I'd rather drink, or have sweets, or have sex. Just can't get into smoking tobacco as a vice, sorry. Or hash, for that matter, as it's too harsh.

This is a fruity, salty, earthy, and smokey dram. It's tasty, and if you love Cigars, buy it. I don't, so I had my wife help me with this (and every single) review, to ensure that I knew what I was talking about.

83/100 (A Shit ton higher if you like Tobacco)



Part 2:

Tomatin 21 Year Old 1990 - Old Malt Cask (Douglas Laing). Just saying that makes me get Nostalgic. First IB I had was a Douglas Laing. It was part of my first flight, and I'm still excited about them.

My first word was Duck. And the First album I knew I loved was Americana. Let's get some Nostalgia going.

Price: N/A In Ontario (Which was the first Province I lived in)

Distilled: May 1990 (While I was listening to Nevermind)

Bottled: December 2011 (While I was listening to El Camino)

Casks: Refill hogshead (The first unit of measurement that tipped me off that adults may not have their shit together)

Abv: 50% (First deal I ever received on eye glasses)

Colour: Apple juice (The First drink I knew as a kid that I didn't like)

Nose: Floral, peaches, vanilla, fresh linen, alcohol

Reminds me of different smells of laundry detergent... well, except the alcohol one. That'd be pretty cool.

Very subtle nose. Took awhile to really break into it.

Taste: Vanilla custard, pepper, plum, salted cashews, cantaloupe, walnut oil, sugar cane, mango

Reminds me of the first time I bought Asian desserts. They're sweet, however not as rich or strong as Canadian desserts.

Lots of different notes here, pairing well with one another.

Finish: Sourdough, cabbage, lemon juice, mineral water, dry

Reminds me of being a kid; there's a feeling of taking a header into the dirt, drinking my Dad's Perrier and not liking it, trying out coleslaw and deciding it wasn't for me...

Very sour earth flavours in here. Really dry. Not really a fan, as it doesn't differ enough to warrant the amount of dryness.

Conclusion: Who says that all IBs are amazing? Honestly, this has a great taste, reminds me of some things, but all in all isn't anything too special. The taste is good, the finish is lack luster, and the nose is interesting. I'd say pass.

78/100

Up next we have Tomatin 30, recently stated as a gem of the Scotch community. However there are two different ones, one at 49%, which is in Sherry casks, and another that is aged in American and European casks.

I had the less fan fare one.

If I were to list the following things, you may guess how I feel about it: Champagne, Lobster, Anal Sex, and Picnics.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 46%

Colour: Honey, cardamon, orange, cranberry, grain, vanilla bean, medicinal

Lighter nose, there's a decent amount of sweetness, with some acid coming off of it.

See, the big thing is, Champagne all depends on the people making it and the type, and what you like. Half of it is just dry, and the other half really sweet, and that turns off tons of people. Not to mention, open a bottle, and you have to finish it.

Taste: Strawberry,  cough medicine, light maple syrup, oak, lime, nutmeg

Very big hit of strawberries and cough medicine, and then.. meh. I mean, it's nice, but nothing over the top. There isn't enough to really complain or go on about.

Lobster is funny. It basically has the taste of butter. Most people just dip it in butter, or smother it in cheese or some sauce. Sure, it has a nice texture, but so would most other crustacean's. And it's messy.

Finish: Cranberry,  wood, lemon rind, cherry, cloves, cotton, cedar, almond

There's a longer finish, mostly woody. The sherry influence picks up, though nothing too over the top.

Anal sex takes a ton of time to both prepare and get used to. Sure, some men, women, and other genders prefer it, however at the end of the day, it's not THAT amazing for all the work you have to put in.

Conclusion: Fuck picnics, it's eating cold things outside, and is only good if it's nice out.

As you can tell, this is the lower end version of the Tomatin 30 year. It's overhyped only because the other version had such good marks. The above list is Hitchen's Overrated things, and I think I'd add this one to it.

Don't get me wrong, it was a nice dram, just not worth the money, and other Tomatin's are a lot better.

79/100

Tomatin C? B?can. The name strikes fear into your heart, yet still, through the moors, you trudge forward.

A shrill cry rings out, and as you turn around, your ammo carrier has become shorter, his red blood seeping into your back, hot and sticky against the cold air.

As you raise your blunderbuss high, you stare into the darkness. Two blue eyes pop out, slowly burrowing into your heart.

A quick dart is all you see, firing wildly, splintering a tree.

As you fall back into the muck, the beast rises high over you, it's smoky hot breath upon your brow.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 46%

Colour: Hay

A deep orange blur is all you can see.

Nose: Sour cantaloupe, peat, brine, melon,  flint, sheep shit, rotten potato

The smell of compost is the first thing that hits you, with sea air, the flint from your blunderbuss, and still, most compost. You turn away from the off smell.

Taste: Apple, peat, coriander, burn, Asian pear, metallic, rose water

As the beast bites into you, you taste smoked fruit, and the metallic burn leaves you hurt. You can smell your funeral flowers as you slowly leave.

Finish: Cumin, too much pepper, bad skunky beer, plum, smoke, old raspberries

The pyre is already burning, as poor folk salvage what little bad beer and spoiled fruit that they can to send you off. The beast paces at the swamp's edge, waiting for another victim.

Conclusion: It just didn't work out for this one. Tomatin can be done well with Peat (see above). This has some peat, nothing to go along, and it's rough. A little more time, and maybe the hunters would return to it.

68/100

Tomatin Decades. 

Swapped with /u/jimvarney01, who is awesome, as finding this was easier than finding the New World.

Tomatin Decades is a special single malt that came out to celebrate Douglas Campbell's 50 years at the distillery.

The casks used were:

So just think for a second what all that means: This is made up of whisky that has been aging before my parents started university. That's insane to me. 

Or to put it a different way:

That's insane to me, and after all I've heard, I'm very excited to try this. Hopefully it isn't all hype. I mean, it survived nude photos of Vanessa Williams and all of the Doors' albums, hate to see it all for naught.

Price: N/A
Abv: 46%

Colour: Bright yellow

Nose: Grape, honey, little wood, clove, yoghurt, peach, strawberries

Very different notes going on here. Lots of fruit, which probably comes from each of the older sherry, yet there's also the Bourbon influences with some wood and vanilla flavours.

Taste: Earth, canned pears, oak, anise, orange rind, cranberry, caramel, pepper, olive oil

Wow. There's... this is really, really complex. I mean, yes, some of the above flavours are quite similar, but... just wow. It has a great acidic, earthy, and sweet mixture that just keeps outdoing itself with every sip.

Wish I had a bottle of this.

Finish: Cumin, lemon, orange, zucchini, oak, vanilla, hot, nutmeg, dry cider, yeast pancakes, basil, raspberry

If you think the taste was complex, the finish just knocks you out of the water. And why were you in water? I don't know, I'm just words conveyed from some guys thoughts, you figure it out.

There's a new yeasty flavour that somehow fits into this crazy mixture.

Conclusion: This is up there for the best Tomatins. It is complex, interesting, unique, and crazy. I almost wish it was cask strength, but at the same time, this is a work of art, and a must try for anyone. I'd dare call it a piece of history in the whisky community, as it's just that good. 

I think if the nose was just a little more complex, or if it was peated, I'd rate it much, much higher, but that's just me.

87/100

Tomatin Legacy is the normal Tomatin Malt, made in the traditional Tomatin style, however they aged it part of the way with Virgin Oak Casks. This was the third bottle as part of the Tomatin pack I bought in Scotland.

And as well all know, adding a virgin to anything can sure screw things up.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 43%

Colour: Bone yellow

Nose: Grapefruit, oak, cotton, cinnamon, tulips, heat, pickle

Wow... I mean, I came into this pretty sarcastically, but I'm honestly impressed. There's a fair bit of fruit and acidity, some spice, a little of that Bourbon pickle flavour... maybe this will be interesting.

Taste: Cherry, clove, vanilla, oil

Nope, just... boring. Almost flavourless. Took me a couple sips to actually get anything. Water does nothing. Turn back, for you have made a mistake. Reminds me of a cheap Sainsbury's blend. Or if someone made Calorie Free Gatorade in a Whisky flavour.

Finish: Cotton, dill, lemon, pepper, heat, macadamia nuts

Again, not much going on. Mostly it's just the dill coming out and some burn. Like a bad salmon entree or something.

Conclusion: What I'm trying to convey is: This is shite. Skip this one. It only saves itself from lower marks (low 50s) by having a nice nose. Kinda like dating a boring person who has nice eyes.

70/100



I am a rougher scorer, however for me, if something goes above 85, I'll consider buying a bottle without fear.

If something goes into the 90s... well, it's worth a hyper price. The above aren't that hyper priced, luckily. The 30 goes for $200.... in the US.



Oh, not the 30, no, I'm just using it as the benchmark. 

Worth $200? I'd say that the Balvenie 30 would be worth more than that, however it goes for $800, so it's out.

I'll have to see. I'm thinking of picking up Laphroaig 15 Sherry Cask Strength Signatory, and it's close to $200, so maybe?



As you can tell, this is the lower end version of the Tomatin 30 year. It's overhyped only because the other version had such good marks.

http://i.imgur.com/zsswNR3.gif



To me, I mean... it just doesn't really compete with the quality I've had in other 30 year old whiskies. It's not bad, per say... just not great.

Also: That's my favourite movie, so the gif made me happy.



Overall Conclusion: So I've now had so many Tomatins I should be able to state my thoughts on the distillery. I'd say that each dram is unique, and you have to know what you want. I personally like what they do with Sherry Casks. I think that the Decades and the 20 OMC are the best of the bunch.

Also I think this is the best Distillery from the Highlands, and you'd be hard pressed to find a better dram out there. 

Thanks for reading, and thanks again for everyone who helped by either swapping or just by giving me ideas for what to write.

Scotch reviews #155-165, Highland reviews #23-33



Nice write-up! I was thinking about buying a bunch of Tomatin samples just to find out what else they got, but it looks like its pretty apparent which ones are good to look out for. FWIW, I think Tomatin does Bourbon cask really well, but Bourbon casks are not universally well liked. I am a black sheep in the regards...I am finding myself preferring refill sherry and the likes. Dat 18 doe...

Kinda disappointed about that 30 review, as I just bought one...but Ralfy said it was good so :P.



Yeah, that's the crazy thing is they are so (relatively speaking) cheap. My local store owner gave me a mini of 15 and it was underwhelming. I may try the 18 and see if there's any 21 floating around.

I think he's still got a few decades... Ya know, if you're interested.



ay-yai-yai...  that's no good...  

Let me know if you're ever down near detroit!



Based on what I've had, yes. Based on my own opinion, yes. I'll avoid any I've had one of, and only look at those I've had a few of. And only those I've done official reviews for.

I mean, Dalmore gave me one dram I liked, and they are all too expensive. The 15 is good, the King Alexander III is good (not worth the price), and everything else hasn't been that great.

Glenmorangie is okay, but seriously, when I blind reviewed the 18 I was put off, the Ealanta and the 100 proof are the only two big ones.

I haven't had Oban 18, however every Oban I've had is overly expensive and only just gets by.

Old Pulteney... I'm split on. The 12 is bitter mouthwash and the 21 is proof of the divine. So maybe they'll end up the best.



I'll have to try some. To tell you the truth, Highlands probably get the most flak from me, so I don't typically buy a lot of them. Thus why it was a focus for some recent reviews.

Also I live in Canada, and as such, finding samples, good whisky bars, or any bottles under $70 is.... challenging.



Awesome mega-review! You definitely nailed the picture review. 

As I was looking through the scores I was thinking that you must not like Tomatin very much, but at the end you talked about how much you liked them. I figured your scoring must be harsher than mine, so I did some investigating. 

First off, you have exactly 200 reviews in the archive, so congratulations on that!

Second, the best and worst scores you gave in this mega-review were 87 for Tomatin Decades and 68 for Tomatin C? B?can. For context, the latter got the same score as Bowmore 12, and the former got the same score as the following:

Aberlour A'bunadh 

Amrut Peated Cask Strength    

Balvenie 21 Portwood  

Glenfiddich 21 Gran Reserva   

Glenmorangie Ealanta  

Lagavulin 12

Port Ellen 15 year 1980 Signatory

Your mean score is 80.37, median is 81, and mode (most often given) is 83. 

This helped me get a better idea of what your numerical scores were saying. Again, great set of reviews!



Thanks, that's quite the analysis.. 

And I stand by that equivalence, and now I want to drink each of those drams again...

If you add in my rum reviews and my community reviews, my mean score is 79.52, and my total reviews are 221.



http://i.imgur.com/eYpDaPt.jpg

I want some of that Tomatin 21 Year Old..mmmmmm.  The Decades seems tasty as well.



Yeah, you may end up liking it a lot more than me.

The sample I bought was from the UK, so there was a chance it'd be the 49% version. Oh well, I look forward to your review. And Ralfy likes it, so that may just be that I don't have the same tastes as Ralfy..



I wish I could enjoy Cigars more, as the whole time I was drinking it, my thoughts were "Wow, this is really well put together... too bad I don't like Tobacco".

And yeah, the Decades is nuts.



That sums up perfectly how I felt finally posting this.

Though I am sad I never found a sample of 25 year.