This mini-bottle was a gift from a friend?the same friend who once gave me some Stars Black Whisky to try (i.e. the worst whisky I have ever tasted)?for Christmas: a 50mL mini-bottle of this stuff, pulled from a sampler pack. I will from this point consider him redeemed as a friend.

Tomatin 18 Year Old Single Malt Scotch Whisky; Highland; 18 Years Old; 46% ABV; non chill-filtered; ?finished in Oloroso sherry casks?; this glass comes from a 50mL sample bottle, but a full 750mL bottle runs about $104 Cdn. in Alberta, Canada.

Appearance: Deep copper. The bottle doesn?t say anything about natural colour, but this is pretty light for an 18 year old sherry-finished whisky. The whisky clings nicely to the side of the glass. The bottle?s branding is simple?maybe a bit too simple for a $100 prestige whisky, maybe.

Nose: Floral. Heather. Lavender. Hints of sherry?raspberries and strawberries. Honey. Faint leather and tobacco. Subtle baking spices. Light seasalt-y brine. Cereal. Light banana? Vanilla cream? Lemon. Light chocolate? An almost sourness.

Taste: Surprisingly hot and spicy for a whisky that?s aged this long. Hot chilli peppers, also some black pepper. But it feels nice, in terms of the creamy, oily body. Some sherried fruitiness, though: again, sweet red fruits like strawberries and raspberries. Lemony. Again, very floral, with big heather and other somewhat bitter floral notes. Grass. Hay. Faint diacetyl (i.e. fake popcorn butter), though not to extent of say, a Bruichladdich. Slightly salty. Menthol. Lemon throat lozenges? After 15-20 minutes, some of the heat and sharpness fades, but the dominant here is still the lightly bitter floral mixed with the sherried red fruits.

Finish: Lingering heat. Faintly sour and skewing slightly bitter. Light red fruits. Tobacco. Decent length. Very . . . rustic, if that makes sense? Like a farmhouse.

Final Thoughts: It?s an interesting whisky, but I don?t think it?s for me: the combo of salty, bitter and the overdose on the floral notes doesn?t really do it for me, even if I can acknowledge this as a fairly well-made product. Seems really hot for an 18 year old, though?and while the complexity is there, it doesn?t really come together in a well-rounded package. At any rate, it?s most certainly not worth the steep price-tag attached: at $104 for a full bottle, it just really doesn?t seem worth it.

Score: 82



Love this stuff. I got it around $55. A steal!

It definitely is a bit more spirit forward than most 18 yr olds, but I think that works in this ones favor!



REVIEW #90: Tomatin 18 year - 46% abv

Nose:  cooked apples, sour apples, ripe pears, blackberries, cinnamon, nutmeg, dry dust, vanilla, dried lemon zest, thyme, dry oak, leather, dirt, cocoa. Hah! Horst Luening was right.  Gummy bears.  :P  Crazy.

Taste: sweet, buttery, velvety on the tongue, some salt, some crushed red pepper heat, caramel sweetness, salted butter, ritz crackers, mouth-watering in the front, drying in the back, at the same time, which is pretty cool.

Finish: At first I thought it was a fast finish, but it keeps ebbing and flowing back and forth with surges of flavors returning and fading away.  Feels like the flavors are slowly melting off the insides of my cheeks and dripping off my tongue.  A nice glowing warmth remains as the fruitiness slowly fades away.  Mmmm.

Score: 90/100 

Buy a full bottle? Yes

Closing Thoughts: Geez.  I picked some good ones to sample.  This is fantastic.  



Review #61

Hello everyone! Last week was my second wedding anniversary and my wife surprised me with a last minute camping trip to Yosemite. After learning that alcohol/glass is allowed in the park I elected to pull off the road at the closest Bevmo I could find so I could have some scotch on the trip. While inside I encountered a real first world problem, I?d already had all but 2 of the whisky?s available, one was a $599.00  bottle of highland park 30, which I elected to not subject to the temperature fluctuations of camping, and a Tomatin 18.

I was not fully enthused about the purchase considering I?ve had younger Tomatin offerings which I found to be painfully average at best, but I was willing to give age a chance. I enjoyed some of the stuff on my trip, but here are some notes I took when we got back home:

Tomatin 18, Highlands, 46% ABV NCF

Nose: Cognac dipped cigars. Sweet spicy nutfat. Creamy sherry. Dry silicone and salty lemon. Round chocolate and stale raspberry juice.

Palate: Peppery oak. Wheat flour, unsweetened caramel. Very oily and coating (Thanks NCF, I love you). Bitter floral, buttered popcorn. Salty paprika.

Finish: Bitterly sweet sherry. Smooth, slightly warming. Lingers on gracefully but not deliciously.

85/100

Decent, a great improvement over the younger bottlings I?ve previously had? but still only a bit above average. The nose is most inviting about this dram. The palate, while complex, is pretty dull and flat (Not very lively). And the finish is elegant but boring.

As an aside, sorry about the terrible photo but it cracked me up so I just had to use it, I had already polished off a couple bottles of zinfandel and was laying, world spinning, in the tent when I first cracked open this bottle? and this was my meager attempt at trying to document the occasion.



Cool! Yosemite is magical! First time camping?! Wow. I've already been 6 times this summer! Lagavulin is good at a campfire, Macallan 12 is my fav, Fiddich 15 is delish too; and both of those are affordable. we're trying to decide what to bring backpacking in the sierras in Aug. 

You from CA?



Right on, that is a legitimate first world problem lol - BevMo has a pretty huge selection so congrats on that achievement as well. Also congrats on your 2nd wedding anniversary. I just had my 3rd on June 12th.

I like the picture too, did you have a camping cup or did you nose and taste straight out of the bottle? Not judging just curious, I probably would have been sipping from a steel camping mug :D I've got a sample of the Tomatin 12 to dip into soon. Cheers



I am sick and tired of the high prices offered by legacy malts. So I decided to venture out of the safe zone and pick something that is inexpensive and relatively unknown. I have been eyeing this 18 year old for awhile, especially at its $55 price. You just can't get that with the legacy malts. Slap non-chill filtered on the label and a few promising reviews, I was sold. 

Review # 20

Tomatin 18 (NCF, 92 proof, Finished in Oloroso sherry casks)

Color: Chestnut

Nose: White grape juice, apple fritters, cinnamon frosting, roasted rosemary, pancake syrup, white bread, canvas, smokey charred marshmallow, a1 steak sauce, honey comb, tropical fruits

Taste: Sweet pineapple and orange at the front, immediately followed by creamy baking spices, cinnamon, pepper and splintering oak mid palate, then ends with savory heather, liquorice, char and chocolate; chewey and viscous, little bitterness despite a lot of tannin

Finish: medium length of char, cacao, sage, oranges, smarties; starts slightly medicinal but ends sweet and clean

Overall: Excellent Malt. I was a bit disappointed at first, but this is a treasure trove if you sit and sniff for awhile. There is a very faint smokey, savory and herbaceous component underneath that I can't put my finger on. At first I was worried that it was a poor sherry cask, but the more I contemplate, the more I realize that there is some peat hanging around! (At least I hope my experience picked it out correctly) This is made from refill oak, so this may have been married with old peated malt casks or Tomatin slightly peats their malt, neither of which they don't say. Indeed, a mystery. At least the notes match the distillers on the box: "hint of smokey heather." So, I must be doing something right and boy do I enjoy it!  The nose never backs down - I quit recording by the third glass. Yes, the third glass because its greatest strength is that it is delicious.

The taste is the best part. Fruity, woody, spicy, creamy, savory and herbaceous, it is incredibly well rounded with fruits taking a bold lead but not overpowering. In addition, it is incredibly drinkable. No harsh tannin or bitterness. Your taste buds just water. The finish is aggressively bitter and medicinal at first before settling down to a clean fruity, candy like sweetness. Very well put together!

Rating: Excellent (90/100)



Tomatin 18 Year ? 46%, $85 

Nose: Sherry malt, musty oak, lightly astringent, honey, light floral.  

Taste: Strong malt, meaty, sherry nuts, oak spice, light musty. Medium mouthfeel. 

Finish:  The meaty sherry holds along with the oak spice, the musty fades quickly and a slight bitter comes up and fades right at the end.  

Notes: Nice enough but I would expect more from something that rested for 18 years. I feel like the quality of the base spirit is a little lacking.  

81/100



I recently got a bottle of this and my thoughts were the same.

It was underwhelming for being a 18 year old. And it is pricey in Canada so I expected something much more than what it was.

If the price point was less than 80 then it is justifiable otherwise it is a pass for me.



Tomatin 18, 46% ABV, 50mL sample

I looked in the Whisky Bible and there seems to be 3 versions of this whisky - 40%, 43% and 46%. This is the newer 46% ABV one.

Nose: Sweet and fruity. Black cherries, grapes and cranberry juice. Vanilla custard and banana essence. Some briny mustiness and faint gunpowder.

Taste: Hot and tingly. Sauerkraut and dry cider. Salted caramel and chilli flakes. Sweet malt with a squeeze of lemon. Musk sticks. Lightly medicinal like Dr Pepper.

Finish: Honey, liquorice, pepper and sea salt. Dried apricots, lemon rind and oaky dryness. Slightly bitter with the faintest hint of smoking rubber. Medium, spicy and dry.

Very interesting... This smells like a sherry finished 18yo, but tastes hot and tangy like a young bourbon matured whisky. It's quite sharp on the palate and the finish is very dry.

Overall, not very refined or mellow for an 18yo but I like it a lot. 

84/100

Review #67, thanks for reading.



Blind sample tasting, courtesy of /u/BadgerHawkville; much appreciated! This sample was one of the first few I received, but this random system doesn?t really care about that... I?m glad I finally opened this one up, because it?s a pretty darn good scotch! 

?

Tomatin 18YO NCF ? 46%

?

Average score to date: 75.7

?

Another very good sample swap. These are some quality whiskies, and it?s making me feel like my scores are inflated since my average has increased almost 6 points with the last few. I?m half-tempted to review some bad whiskeys to balance it out? wait, no, I?m not.

?

Would I rebuy a bottle? Yes, but not for a while. It?s a good whisky, but there?s lots more to try out there!



Hi Scotchit! I've tried a couple of Tomatins recently and I want to share my reviews with you. So if you haven't already, pour yourself a glass of a nice whisky, make yourself comfortable in your favorite easy chair and enjoy, weekend is over faster than you think!

Tomatin 12

Speyside, 40%

color: amber

nose: walnuts, red wine, After Eight (TM), cookies, herbs, wood

taste: sweet, dried apricots, toffee, wood, marzipan, malt

finish: forest berries, middle long, dry

Solid, good malt. Actually nothing to criticize, except it's probably colored, chill filtered and only 40%. The barrel is already clearly noticeable after 12 years.

83/100

Tomatin 15

Speyside, 43%

color: white wine

nose: floral, oak, sweet fennel, lemon, sour apple rings, tomato plant, caramel, linen, vanilla

taste: oak, rapeseed, tangerine, freshly squeezed lemon juice, coconut, touch of sage, unripe apricots, pineapple

finish: lingers

The oak is already quite noticeable. Nevertheless it is pretty fresh for a 15 yo. Well balanced, fruity and a nice long finish: would recommend.

87/100

Tomatin 18

Speyside, 46%

(90th Scotch review)

color: brass

nose: baked apple, vanilla, oak, honey, dark fruits, cinnamon, concrete

taste: oak, hint of smoke, tobacco leaves, honey, citrus, ginger, blackcurrants, chocolate

finish: warming and lingering

Typical Speysider. Not so complex. Pleasant nose with some mineral notes. A sweet arrival and a spicy development leading in a long finish. More sherry than the younger ones.

85/100

That's it! Tomatin makes some good stuff. If you want some change from your peat blasts or sherry bombs and are looking for a nice Speysider, try this. Thanks for reading!



Hmmm...I've heard such conflicting reviews for Tomatin recently, its hard to know, it seems, if you're gong to like it or not coming into it.  Thanks for the reviews!  

Also, you may have typo in the 15 taste notes, or at least I hope there isn't something call "rapeseed".



Tomatin is a high-capacity Highland distillery, though much of the output is destined for blends. The 18 year version is finished in Oloroso casks, and bottled at 46%.

Nose - Kind of strange - a bit sour, and very grassy. In addition to the grassiness, I get green apple skins, some malty honeyed sweetness, vanilla, clove, and some musty notes. Seems to get sweeter and more ?standard? with breathing. Even more breathing brings out fleeting hints of Oloroso. Fairly mild. 

Palate - Starts malty, honeyed, and sweet, with some vanilla as well. The development brings some spice (pepper, ginger, and clove), hints of raisin, and green apple notes. Richer and more flavorful than the nose had me thinking. Medium body.

Finish - Ginger, black pepper, green apple, lemon. I catch hints of some Oloroso-ed dark fruit and nutty notes, but besides that it?s a pretty standard bourbon matured whisky finish, but not in a bad way. Becomes slightly more sour-appley as it lingers.

This is a decent enough Scotch, especially given the relatively friendly price for an 18 year old version, but it?s a very average bourbon matured profile with a little Oloroso on top. If I want this flavor profile I?ll stick with Balvenie 12 for less money.

84/100



Got a lot more fruity sherry notes than you appear to have. And gummybears! 

That bottle was from a couple years ago though. Don't know if it might have changed a bit.



Part 1

No preamble about my life, no rambling about genitalia or frustrations, nothing as this one is going to be a barn burner; The often mentioned (by me) Tomatin Unde-Review that I've been saving up to do for way, way too long.

Tomatin is a Highland distillery located in, surprisingly, the village of Tomatin. They've been distilling since the 16th century, however they became an official distillery only near the end of the 19th, and since then have been mothballed, sold off, built up to handle massive amounts of booze, and then taken apart. Now 80% of their malts are in blends, and they are owned by a Japanese company. Mad world we live in.

If this distillery were a human, they'd be your tough grandparents. They've seen some shit, and still smile and act nicely and give you candy. Yet at the drop of a hat, they could gut your friends and leave them to dry before you could blink. Also they were the first to be owned by the Japanese, but we don't like to talk about that.

I'm also going to note that there's sometimes a week or more difference between each tasting/review here, so keep that in mind while reading each. It may seem a little manic otherwise.

Tomatin 12

Bought as part of a three part set

Price: $56.70 (CAD)

Abv: 43%

Colour: Straw

Nose: Honey, cranberry, wheat, lemon tart, butter, lime

There's a tart flavour to this one. Like my wife! Ha, I kid... seriously though, she's lovely and patient with me.

Anyway, it's an odd mixture of the tart sherry from the finish, the wheat from the spirit, and the butter/honey from the oak. Takes some time to get into.

Taste: Peanut, cinnamon, cherry, lime rind, nutmeg, ginger beer

There's some spicy red nuts throughout this.... Like my wife! Ha, I kid, seriously though, she's amazing and we have great relations, I'm just not a BJ kinda guy, so she doesn't.

Moving on...

The peanut flavour is very present. Also as it opens up, it's exactly like a proper, strong ginger beer, which is very odd. I don't know how much I liked it, but it was unique and had some nice flavours.

Finish: Lemon loaf, yeast, wheat, grains, ginger, bread, almond

The end of this one is too grainy and yeasty.

If you think I'm continuing on the joke above, you must think my chesterfield is really comfortable.

Seriously though, the end of this has some of that spice from the Spanish Sherry, but just... doesn't have enough? It's really nutty and yeasty, not really my thing.

Conclusion: It smells like a short sherry finished whisky, it has a nice taste, and the finish is like a spiced beer. A little too much yeast/grain in the finish, however it's a nice dram otherwise.

75/100

Tomatin 15

Aged in American oak

Bourbon influenced

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 43%

Colour: Dirty Blonde

Nose: Light red licorice, sour fake cherry, ancho, casia buds, plums

Sweet delicate taste

Some spice, some heat, mostly

Candy flavours here

Taste: Cherry, almond, currant, nutmeg, bubblegum, salt, caramel, pepper

Amaretto light

Not tart, just sweet, good mouth feel

Turns to sweet, salty

Finish: Nutmeg, strawberry, cloves, ham, ginger, heather honey

Less fruit at the end

Hints of Easter dinner throughout

Medium aftertaste

Conclusion: Okay, enough horsing around with Haikus. This is like a small step up from a Lowland malt, and it's really sweet. Some people may be turned off by that, however I enjoyed this quite a bit. It tastes like a single lotus leaf in a bowl, floating far.... wait, what the fuck does that even mean? It's delicate, it's sweet, I could see myself enjoying it any time, and the Finish was my favourite part.

82/100

Tomatin 18

Bought as part of a three part set. Finished in Oloroso Sherry casks.

Cue crying about sulfur.... now!

Price: $128.95 (CAD)

Abv: 46%

Colour: Roasted garlic

Nose: Strawberry, anise, basil, currant, nutmeg, lemon, candied orange, cake frosting

Very sweet nose, with just a hint of acid, spice, and vegetal notes. You can tell that the sherry is very prominent in this one.

Maybe it's the extra 46%? Maybe it's born with it...

Taste: Anise, lemon, pepper, nutmeg, raspberry juice, mint, ginger

That's a spicy meeta-ball! Seriously, lots of spice hitting you, and just a hint of acidic red fruits.

Finish: Buttered mushrooms, red licorice, strawberry jam, heat, allspice, raisin, caramel

Look to your dram, now back at my dram, the spice is paired with earth mixed with more red fruits and a deep sherry influence on the dram. Very short finish, unfortunately.

Conclusion: I feel like I've fallen and can't get up. This isn't a dram you'll be wondering where the beef is... it's a tasty dram. Slightly better than the 15, the price difference hurts it, yet this has a lot of interesting spice to it that makes it a dram to look out for.

84/100

Tomatin 18 year old 1994 Authentic Collection (WM Cadenhead) was reviewed directly (after cleaning my mouth of any residual flavour) after the above Tomatin 18. This one is independently bottled by the arcane masters of malt at Cadenheads, at cask strength, and probably with some eye of newt and toil and trouble thrown in.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Distilled: 1994

Bottled: February 2013

Cask Type: Bourbon Hogshead

No. of Bottles: 214

Abv: 54.1%

Colour: White wine

Nose: Pine, nutmeg, anise, plum, mango, vanilla, smoke

At first this is exactly like a Canuck, yet it start transmogrifying as time goes on, conjuring forth fruit, spice, and even a little smoke and vanilla. Unfortunately it has a reduced, light, hard to smell nose on it. 

10 points from Gryffindor!

Taste: Earth, anise, toffee, orange, nutmeg, cocoa, cinnamon, red grapes

Abjured from the sherry cask finish, this has more of a heavy spiced cocoa flavour. Like spiced hot chocolate, with a little Brave orange peel to bear me through it.

Finish: Sour lemon, turnip, butter, potato, mint, smoke, caramel, thyme

Earthy, but not in a bad way. Like stoneskin, this wears of after multiple hits of the dram. Last forever. Or at least that's what the gremlins want you to think.

Conclusion: Like eating an entire pack of Bertie Bott's every flavour beans, this has a huge amount of complexity and range. Long finish, great taste, and... well, the nose let's you down, and thus, I have to take points away for it. It's too bad, as it's really a better dram than the original otherwise. 

85/100

Tomatin 20 year old 1993 Old Particular (Douglas Laing) is up next. I bought this dram from Masters of Malt. I can't say for certain, as finding any information on this bottle has been a pain in my ass, but I would hazard to say it was aged in Bourbon Hogsheads. There is no colouring and, like all of the Old Particular line, they are non chill filtered. Since this is older than 19 years, it ends up at the higher Abv content.

The below format is stolen from /u/LetThereBeR0ck, who said it was okay for me to steal it.

And it's all from the same cask.

Price: Not available in Ontario.

Cask # 9984

Distilled: January 1993

Bottled: August 2013

Abv: 51.5%

Colour: Clear with a yellow tint

Nose: Tart, some meaty-ness, salty, some spice as time goes on

Taste: Smoked fruit, Mexican influences

Finish: Like a BBQ Bakery

Conclusion: Complex, spicy dram, with tons of citrus elements, and well worth buying

86/100

Tomatin 21 Year Old is a limited edition OB made up of whiskies that are between 21 and 24 years old, use both North American and Euopean oak casks, of which 6 are ex-bourbon and 1 is a refill sherry butt.

Hehehehe... I said Butt.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Distilled: Various ages, the youngest of which was 21. Thus they had to calm it down, stop it from partying, and let it meet up with some other 20 somethings to help blend it into a good person.

Bottled: December 1, 2009

Abv: 52%

Colour: Browny-yellow

Nose: Grapefruit, red grapes, currant, sea air, tobacco, light smoke, violets, clover honey

If I didn't know any better (and I don't), I'd say this was a sherried Islay. The fruit subsides after a bit, leaving a lot of tobacco smell to it, like kissing my wife after she's had a cigar.

Taste: Tobacco, smoke, dark cherry, mushrooms in butter, pastrami, pepper, paprika

Again, a ton of tobacco. Like, most of Montreal is in each drink, that's how much Tobacco.

(EDITOR'S NOTE): Montrealer's smoke like it's the cure for cancer.

Finish: Cuban Cigar, mint, hairspray, sour candies, faint dark fruits

Finishes in an earthy, Cuban Cigar (Suck it Americans, I live in Canada, I can buy Cubans!) taste that is very present.. You know, like being present when you fart in an elevator, that kinda present.

Conclusion: Confession time, I... don't like Cigars. Just not my thing. I'd rather drink, or have sweets, or have sex. Just can't get into smoking tobacco as a vice, sorry. Or hash, for that matter, as it's too harsh.

This is a fruity, salty, earthy, and smokey dram. It's tasty, and if you love Cigars, buy it. I don't, so I had my wife help me with this (and every single) review, to ensure that I knew what I was talking about.

83/100 (A Shit ton higher if you like Tobacco)



Part 2:

Tomatin 21 Year Old 1990 - Old Malt Cask (Douglas Laing). Just saying that makes me get Nostalgic. First IB I had was a Douglas Laing. It was part of my first flight, and I'm still excited about them.

My first word was Duck. And the First album I knew I loved was Americana. Let's get some Nostalgia going.

Price: N/A In Ontario (Which was the first Province I lived in)

Distilled: May 1990 (While I was listening to Nevermind)

Bottled: December 2011 (While I was listening to El Camino)

Casks: Refill hogshead (The first unit of measurement that tipped me off that adults may not have their shit together)

Abv: 50% (First deal I ever received on eye glasses)

Colour: Apple juice (The First drink I knew as a kid that I didn't like)

Nose: Floral, peaches, vanilla, fresh linen, alcohol

Reminds me of different smells of laundry detergent... well, except the alcohol one. That'd be pretty cool.

Very subtle nose. Took awhile to really break into it.

Taste: Vanilla custard, pepper, plum, salted cashews, cantaloupe, walnut oil, sugar cane, mango

Reminds me of the first time I bought Asian desserts. They're sweet, however not as rich or strong as Canadian desserts.

Lots of different notes here, pairing well with one another.

Finish: Sourdough, cabbage, lemon juice, mineral water, dry

Reminds me of being a kid; there's a feeling of taking a header into the dirt, drinking my Dad's Perrier and not liking it, trying out coleslaw and deciding it wasn't for me...

Very sour earth flavours in here. Really dry. Not really a fan, as it doesn't differ enough to warrant the amount of dryness.

Conclusion: Who says that all IBs are amazing? Honestly, this has a great taste, reminds me of some things, but all in all isn't anything too special. The taste is good, the finish is lack luster, and the nose is interesting. I'd say pass.

78/100

Up next we have Tomatin 30, recently stated as a gem of the Scotch community. However there are two different ones, one at 49%, which is in Sherry casks, and another that is aged in American and European casks.

I had the less fan fare one.

If I were to list the following things, you may guess how I feel about it: Champagne, Lobster, Anal Sex, and Picnics.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 46%

Colour: Honey, cardamon, orange, cranberry, grain, vanilla bean, medicinal

Lighter nose, there's a decent amount of sweetness, with some acid coming off of it.

See, the big thing is, Champagne all depends on the people making it and the type, and what you like. Half of it is just dry, and the other half really sweet, and that turns off tons of people. Not to mention, open a bottle, and you have to finish it.

Taste: Strawberry,  cough medicine, light maple syrup, oak, lime, nutmeg

Very big hit of strawberries and cough medicine, and then.. meh. I mean, it's nice, but nothing over the top. There isn't enough to really complain or go on about.

Lobster is funny. It basically has the taste of butter. Most people just dip it in butter, or smother it in cheese or some sauce. Sure, it has a nice texture, but so would most other crustacean's. And it's messy.

Finish: Cranberry,  wood, lemon rind, cherry, cloves, cotton, cedar, almond

There's a longer finish, mostly woody. The sherry influence picks up, though nothing too over the top.

Anal sex takes a ton of time to both prepare and get used to. Sure, some men, women, and other genders prefer it, however at the end of the day, it's not THAT amazing for all the work you have to put in.

Conclusion: Fuck picnics, it's eating cold things outside, and is only good if it's nice out.

As you can tell, this is the lower end version of the Tomatin 30 year. It's overhyped only because the other version had such good marks. The above list is Hitchen's Overrated things, and I think I'd add this one to it.

Don't get me wrong, it was a nice dram, just not worth the money, and other Tomatin's are a lot better.

79/100

Tomatin C? B?can. The name strikes fear into your heart, yet still, through the moors, you trudge forward.

A shrill cry rings out, and as you turn around, your ammo carrier has become shorter, his red blood seeping into your back, hot and sticky against the cold air.

As you raise your blunderbuss high, you stare into the darkness. Two blue eyes pop out, slowly burrowing into your heart.

A quick dart is all you see, firing wildly, splintering a tree.

As you fall back into the muck, the beast rises high over you, it's smoky hot breath upon your brow.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 46%

Colour: Hay

A deep orange blur is all you can see.

Nose: Sour cantaloupe, peat, brine, melon,  flint, sheep shit, rotten potato

The smell of compost is the first thing that hits you, with sea air, the flint from your blunderbuss, and still, most compost. You turn away from the off smell.

Taste: Apple, peat, coriander, burn, Asian pear, metallic, rose water

As the beast bites into you, you taste smoked fruit, and the metallic burn leaves you hurt. You can smell your funeral flowers as you slowly leave.

Finish: Cumin, too much pepper, bad skunky beer, plum, smoke, old raspberries

The pyre is already burning, as poor folk salvage what little bad beer and spoiled fruit that they can to send you off. The beast paces at the swamp's edge, waiting for another victim.

Conclusion: It just didn't work out for this one. Tomatin can be done well with Peat (see above). This has some peat, nothing to go along, and it's rough. A little more time, and maybe the hunters would return to it.

68/100

Tomatin Decades. 

Swapped with /u/jimvarney01, who is awesome, as finding this was easier than finding the New World.

Tomatin Decades is a special single malt that came out to celebrate Douglas Campbell's 50 years at the distillery.

The casks used were:

So just think for a second what all that means: This is made up of whisky that has been aging before my parents started university. That's insane to me. 

Or to put it a different way:

That's insane to me, and after all I've heard, I'm very excited to try this. Hopefully it isn't all hype. I mean, it survived nude photos of Vanessa Williams and all of the Doors' albums, hate to see it all for naught.

Price: N/A
Abv: 46%

Colour: Bright yellow

Nose: Grape, honey, little wood, clove, yoghurt, peach, strawberries

Very different notes going on here. Lots of fruit, which probably comes from each of the older sherry, yet there's also the Bourbon influences with some wood and vanilla flavours.

Taste: Earth, canned pears, oak, anise, orange rind, cranberry, caramel, pepper, olive oil

Wow. There's... this is really, really complex. I mean, yes, some of the above flavours are quite similar, but... just wow. It has a great acidic, earthy, and sweet mixture that just keeps outdoing itself with every sip.

Wish I had a bottle of this.

Finish: Cumin, lemon, orange, zucchini, oak, vanilla, hot, nutmeg, dry cider, yeast pancakes, basil, raspberry

If you think the taste was complex, the finish just knocks you out of the water. And why were you in water? I don't know, I'm just words conveyed from some guys thoughts, you figure it out.

There's a new yeasty flavour that somehow fits into this crazy mixture.

Conclusion: This is up there for the best Tomatins. It is complex, interesting, unique, and crazy. I almost wish it was cask strength, but at the same time, this is a work of art, and a must try for anyone. I'd dare call it a piece of history in the whisky community, as it's just that good. 

I think if the nose was just a little more complex, or if it was peated, I'd rate it much, much higher, but that's just me.

87/100

Tomatin Legacy is the normal Tomatin Malt, made in the traditional Tomatin style, however they aged it part of the way with Virgin Oak Casks. This was the third bottle as part of the Tomatin pack I bought in Scotland.

And as well all know, adding a virgin to anything can sure screw things up.

Price: N/A in Ontario

Abv: 43%

Colour: Bone yellow

Nose: Grapefruit, oak, cotton, cinnamon, tulips, heat, pickle

Wow... I mean, I came into this pretty sarcastically, but I'm honestly impressed. There's a fair bit of fruit and acidity, some spice, a little of that Bourbon pickle flavour... maybe this will be interesting.

Taste: Cherry, clove, vanilla, oil

Nope, just... boring. Almost flavourless. Took me a couple sips to actually get anything. Water does nothing. Turn back, for you have made a mistake. Reminds me of a cheap Sainsbury's blend. Or if someone made Calorie Free Gatorade in a Whisky flavour.

Finish: Cotton, dill, lemon, pepper, heat, macadamia nuts

Again, not much going on. Mostly it's just the dill coming out and some burn. Like a bad salmon entree or something.

Conclusion: What I'm trying to convey is: This is shite. Skip this one. It only saves itself from lower marks (low 50s) by having a nice nose. Kinda like dating a boring person who has nice eyes.

70/100



I am a rougher scorer, however for me, if something goes above 85, I'll consider buying a bottle without fear.

If something goes into the 90s... well, it's worth a hyper price. The above aren't that hyper priced, luckily. The 30 goes for $200.... in the US.



Oh, not the 30, no, I'm just using it as the benchmark. 

Worth $200? I'd say that the Balvenie 30 would be worth more than that, however it goes for $800, so it's out.

I'll have to see. I'm thinking of picking up Laphroaig 15 Sherry Cask Strength Signatory, and it's close to $200, so maybe?



As you can tell, this is the lower end version of the Tomatin 30 year. It's overhyped only because the other version had such good marks.

http://i.imgur.com/zsswNR3.gif



To me, I mean... it just doesn't really compete with the quality I've had in other 30 year old whiskies. It's not bad, per say... just not great.

Also: That's my favourite movie, so the gif made me happy.



Overall Conclusion: So I've now had so many Tomatins I should be able to state my thoughts on the distillery. I'd say that each dram is unique, and you have to know what you want. I personally like what they do with Sherry Casks. I think that the Decades and the 20 OMC are the best of the bunch.

Also I think this is the best Distillery from the Highlands, and you'd be hard pressed to find a better dram out there. 

Thanks for reading, and thanks again for everyone who helped by either swapping or just by giving me ideas for what to write.

Scotch reviews #155-165, Highland reviews #23-33



Nice write-up! I was thinking about buying a bunch of Tomatin samples just to find out what else they got, but it looks like its pretty apparent which ones are good to look out for. FWIW, I think Tomatin does Bourbon cask really well, but Bourbon casks are not universally well liked. I am a black sheep in the regards...I am finding myself preferring refill sherry and the likes. Dat 18 doe...

Kinda disappointed about that 30 review, as I just bought one...but Ralfy said it was good so :P.



Yeah, that's the crazy thing is they are so (relatively speaking) cheap. My local store owner gave me a mini of 15 and it was underwhelming. I may try the 18 and see if there's any 21 floating around.

I think he's still got a few decades... Ya know, if you're interested.



ay-yai-yai...  that's no good...  

Let me know if you're ever down near detroit!



Based on what I've had, yes. Based on my own opinion, yes. I'll avoid any I've had one of, and only look at those I've had a few of. And only those I've done official reviews for.

I mean, Dalmore gave me one dram I liked, and they are all too expensive. The 15 is good, the King Alexander III is good (not worth the price), and everything else hasn't been that great.

Glenmorangie is okay, but seriously, when I blind reviewed the 18 I was put off, the Ealanta and the 100 proof are the only two big ones.

I haven't had Oban 18, however every Oban I've had is overly expensive and only just gets by.

Old Pulteney... I'm split on. The 12 is bitter mouthwash and the 21 is proof of the divine. So maybe they'll end up the best.



I'll have to try some. To tell you the truth, Highlands probably get the most flak from me, so I don't typically buy a lot of them. Thus why it was a focus for some recent reviews.

Also I live in Canada, and as such, finding samples, good whisky bars, or any bottles under $70 is.... challenging.



Awesome mega-review! You definitely nailed the picture review. 

As I was looking through the scores I was thinking that you must not like Tomatin very much, but at the end you talked about how much you liked them. I figured your scoring must be harsher than mine, so I did some investigating. 

First off, you have exactly 200 reviews in the archive, so congratulations on that!

Second, the best and worst scores you gave in this mega-review were 87 for Tomatin Decades and 68 for Tomatin C? B?can. For context, the latter got the same score as Bowmore 12, and the former got the same score as the following:

Aberlour A'bunadh 

Amrut Peated Cask Strength    

Balvenie 21 Portwood  

Glenfiddich 21 Gran Reserva   

Glenmorangie Ealanta  

Lagavulin 12

Port Ellen 15 year 1980 Signatory

Your mean score is 80.37, median is 81, and mode (most often given) is 83. 

This helped me get a better idea of what your numerical scores were saying. Again, great set of reviews!



Thanks, that's quite the analysis.. 

And I stand by that equivalence, and now I want to drink each of those drams again...

If you add in my rum reviews and my community reviews, my mean score is 79.52, and my total reviews are 221.



http://i.imgur.com/eYpDaPt.jpg

I want some of that Tomatin 21 Year Old..mmmmmm.  The Decades seems tasty as well.



Yeah, you may end up liking it a lot more than me.

The sample I bought was from the UK, so there was a chance it'd be the 49% version. Oh well, I look forward to your review. And Ralfy likes it, so that may just be that I don't have the same tastes as Ralfy..



I wish I could enjoy Cigars more, as the whole time I was drinking it, my thoughts were "Wow, this is really well put together... too bad I don't like Tobacco".

And yeah, the Decades is nuts.



That sums up perfectly how I felt finally posting this.

Though I am sad I never found a sample of 25 year.